1539	1539
1642	1642
1871	1871
1901	1901
1921	1921
-	-
–	–
—	—
,	,
;	;
:	:
.	.
(	(
)	)
1890s	1890s
18th	18th
19th	19th
20th	20th
21st	21st
ability	ability
abolition	abolishon
according	akording
achieved	acheevd
act	akt
action	akshon
activist	aktivist
advocate	advokaet
advocates	advokaets
advocating	advokaeting
after	after
aid	aed
aim	aem
aiming	aeming
aims	aems
all	all
alongside	alongsaed
also	also
although	aulthor
among	amung
an	an
anarchism	anarkizm
anarchism's	anarkizm's
anarchisme	anarkizm
anarchist	anarkist
anarchist's	anarkist's
anarchistic	anarkistik
anarchists	anarkists
anarcho	anarko
anarchy	anarky
anarkhia	anarkia
ancient	aenshent
and	and
anti	anti
appears	apeers
approach	aproech
approaches	aproeches
are	ar
arose	aroes
arrested	arested
artists	artists
as	as
aspects	aspekts
associated	asoesiaeted
association	asoesiaeshon
associations	asoesiaeshons
at	at
attacked	atakt
attracted	atraekted
authority	authority
authors	authors
autonomy	autonomy
Bakunin	Bakunin
bank	bank
Barcelona	Barcelona
based	baest
basic	baesik
be	be
became	bekaem
been	been
before	before
beginning	begining
being	being
between	bitween
black	blak
bloc	blok
bodies	bodys
body	body
bohemian	boeheemean
both	boeth
branch	branch
branches	branches
bring	bring
broadly	braudly
but	but
by	bi
call	caul
calls	cauls
capitalism	capitalizm
catalan	catalan
catholic	cathlik
cause	cauz
central	sentral
century	senchury
change	cheinj
chaos	chaeos
characterised	charakteriezd
child	chield
children's	children's
christian	chrischan
class	clas
classical	clasikal
closed	cloezd
coercion	coershon
Colin	Colin
collective	colektiv
collectivism	colektivizm
collectivist	colektivist
combining	combiening
commonly	comonly
communism	comuenizm
communist	comuenist
compulsory	compulsory
concepts	consepts
consider	consider
constant	constant
consumption	consumpshon
Contemporary	contemporary
continued	continued
contract	contrakt
contribute	contribuet
controlled	controeld
councils	counsils
countries	cuntrys
coverage	cuverej
creativity	creaetivity
credit	credit
criticism	critisizm
critique	criteek
currency	curensy
currents	curents
curriculum	curikuelum
David	David
decades	dikaeds
declaring	diclaering
defiance	difienss
democracy	dimocrasy
democratic	dimocratik
democratically	dimocratikaly
demonstrations	dimonstraeshon
denotes	dinoets
descriptive	discriptiv
despite	dispiet
determinants	diterminants
developed	divelopt
dictatorship	diktaetorship
differ	difer
differed	diferd
dilemma	dilema
direct	direkt
disparate	disparat
distanced	distenst
distributed	distribueted
diverge	dieverj
diverse	dievers
doctrine	doktrin
doctrines	doktrins
domination	dominaeshon
drawing	drawing
dropping	droping
during	duering
early	erly
eclectic	eclektik
economic	economik
educate	ejucaet
education	ejucaeshon
educational	ejucaeshonal
educators	ejucaetors
effective	efektiv
elitist	elitist
embrace	embraess
emphasise	emfasiez
emphasizes	emfasiezes
employs	employs
ends	ends
engage	engaej
english	english
era	eera
espoused	espouzd
established	establisht
establishment	establishment
etymological	etimolojikal
etymology	etimolojy
even	eevn
evolutionary	evolooshonaery
expanded	expanded
explained	explaend
external	external
faced	faest
factions	fakshons
favours	faevur
federation	federaeshon
feminist	feminist
feminists	feminists
Ferrer	Ferer
Ferrer's	Ferer's
first	furst
fixed	fixt
focuses	foecuses
followed	foloed
following	foloeing
formal	formal
formed	formd
forms	forms
formulated	formuelaeted
foundations	foundaeshons
founding	founding
France	France
Francisco	Francisco
free	free
freedom	freedom
freely	freely
french	french
from	from
fusion	fuezhon
future	fuecher
gave	gaev
gays	gaes
generally	jeneraly
generate	jeneraet
generation	jeneraeshon
globalization	gloebaliezaeshon
goal	goel
Godwin	Godwin
Goodman	Goodman
goods	goods
got	got
greek	greek
groups	groops
guide	gied
guiding	gieding
had	had
half	haf
hand	hand
harassment	harasment
have	hav
Hearbert	Hearbert
hence	henss
Henry	Henry
heterosexuality	heterosekshuality
hierarchical	hierarkikal
himself	himself
historical	historikal
holds	hoelds
horizontal	horizontal
hunters	hunters
i.e	i.e
ideal	iedeel
ideas	iedys
identity	iedentity
ideological	iedeolojikal
ideologically	iedeolojikaly
illegalism	ileegalizm
illegitimate	ilijitimat
In	in
Inceptive	inseptiv
inconsistent	inconsistent
individual	indivijual
individualism	indivijualizm
Individualist	indivijualist
indoctrination	indoktrinaeshon
influenced	influenst
influences	influensses
inspiration	inspiraeshon
institutions	institushons
intellectuals	intelekchual
intensified	intensified
intermingled	intermingld
internally	internaly
International	Internashonal
involuntary	involantaery
involvement	invoelvment
ism 	izm 
It	it
Italian	italian
its	its
Joseph	Joseph
kept	kept
kinds	kiends
known	noun
Kropotkin	Kropotkin
labelled	laebld
labour	leibur
last	last
later	laeter
latest	laetist
leading	leeding
leaning	leening
led	led
left	left
legs	legs
Leo	Leo
liberation	liberaeshon
libertarian	liberterian
like	liek
lived	livd
mainly	maenly
mainstream	maenstreem
managed	manejd
management	manejment
manipulations	manipulaeshons
marginalized	marjinaliezd
marxism	marxizm
marxist	marxist
Max	Max
means	meens
meet	meet
merely	meerly
method	method
microscope	miecroescoep
Mikhail	Mikhail
modern	modern
momentum	momentum
moral	moral
most	moest
mostly	moestly
movement	moovment
movements	moovments
mutual	muechual
mutualism	muechualizm
namely	naemly
nany	nany
Neill	Neill
networks	netwurks
neutral	nuetral
new	nue
news	nuez
next	next
non	non
non	non
normality	normality
not	not
objection	objekshon
of	of
offer	ofer
on	on
opponents	opoenents
opposition	opozishon
or	or
orchestrated	orkestraeted
organised	organiezd 
organizational	organizaeshonal
orientation	orientaeshon
origin	orijin
outlaws	outlaws
over	oever
overlap	oeverlap
ownership	oenership
paid	peid
part	part
particular	particuelar
Paul	Paul
pedagogical	pedagojikal
people	peepl
philosopher	filosaufer
philosophical	filosaufikal
philosophies	filosaufys
philosophy	filosaufy
Pierre	Pierre
plenty	plenty
political	politikal
portraying	poertraying
post	post
potential	potenshal
prefigure	preefigur
prehistory	preehistory
principle	prinsipl
principles	prinsipls
privileges	privlij
process	prosess
production	produkshon
proletariat	proeletaeriat
property	property
Proudhon	Proudhon
public	publik
publicity	publisity
pupils	puepils
put	puut
qua	qua
queers	qeerz
question	qeschon
radical	radikal
radicalism	radikalizm
radicalizing	radikaliezing
radically	radikaly
rather	raether
read	red
reasoning	reezoning
reciprocity	resiprosity
reclamation	reclameashon
referred	referd
refers	refers
reform	reform
regardless	regardles
regulated	reguelaeted
reinforced	reinforsst
rejected	rejekted
rejecting	rejekting
rejects	rejekts
relying	relieying
replacing	replaessing
replicate	replikaet
respect	respekt
respecting	respekting
retrospectively	retrospektivly
revival	revieval
revolution	revolooshon
revolutionaries	revolooshonaerys
revolutionary	revolooshonaery
revolutions	revolooshons
rights	riets
rise	riez
ruling	rooling
S	S
saw	saw
scholars	scolars
schooling	scooling
schools	scools
second	second
section	sekshon
secular	secuelar
see	see
self	self
separated	sepreited
series	seeryz
sets	sets
setting	seting
several	several
sexual	sekshual
shaped	shaept
signaled	signaled
significant	significant
since	sinss
sine	sine
situated	sichuaeted
small	smaul
social	soeshal
socialist	soeshalist
societies	sosietys
society	sosiety
solidarity	solidarity
some	sum
sources	sorses
specific	spesifik
spread	spred
stance	stanss
state	staet
stated	staeted
stateless	staetles
states	staets
steps	steps
still	stil
Stirner	Stirner
stretches	strechez
structuralist	strukcheralist
struggles	strugls
such	such
suffix	sufix
suffrage	sufraj
suggesting	sujesting
Summerhill	Summerhill
supportive	suportiv
survived	survievd
syncretic	syncretik
syndicalism	syndicalizm
syndicalist	syndicalist
syndicates	syndicaet
synthesis	synthesis
system	system
tactics	taktiks
take	taek
tendencies	tendensyz
tenets	tenets
than	than
that	that
the	th
their	thear
them	them
themselves	themselvs
theoretical	theeoretikal
theorised	theeoriezd
theory	theeory
there	ther
therefore	therfor
these	theez
they	thae
thinker	thinker
thinkers	thinkers
thinking	thinking
third	thurd
this	this
Thoreau	Thoreau
those	thoes
thought	thaut
through	throo
time	tiem
timeline	tiemlien
times	tiems
to	to
token	toeken
Tolstoy	Tolstoy
took	tuuk
tool	tool
towards	tords
traditions	tradishons
troubling	trubling
turning	turning
two	too
types	tieps
under	under
undergird	undergurd
undesirable	undezierabl
upon	upon
value	vaelue
varieties	vaeriaetys
various	vaerius
views	vuez
violence	vielenss
violent	vielent
voluntary	volantaery
Ward	Ward
was	was
wave	waev
way	wae
well	wel
were	wer
what	whot
when	when
whether	whether
which	which
while	whiel
whose	hooz
widely	wiedly
wider	wieder
will	wil
William	William
Willian	Willian
with	with
within	within
without	without
women	wimen
work	wurk
worked	wurkd
workers	wurkers
working	wurking
world	wurld
worldview	wurldvue
would	wuud
writers	rieters
yet	yet
yielded	yilded
young	yung
youngsters	yungsters
	
Anarchism is a political philosophy and movement that rejects all involuntary , coercive forms of hierarchy .
Anarkizm is a politikal filesaufy and moovment that rejekts all involuntary , coersiv forms of hierarky .
It radically calls for the abolition of the state which it holds to be undesirable , unnecessary and harmful .
It radikaly cauls for th abolishon of th staet which it hoelds to be undezieraebl , unnesesaery and harmfuul .
The timeline of anarchism stretches back to prehistory when people lived in anarchistic societies long before the establishment of formal states , kingdoms or empires .
Th tiemlien of anarkizm streches bak to prehistory when peepl livd in anarkistik sosietis long before th establishment of formal staets , kingdoms  or empiers .
With the rise of organised hierarchical bodies , skepticism towards authority also rose , but it was not until the 19th century a self - conscious political movement was formed .
With th riez of organiezd hierarkikal bodys , skeptisizm tords authority also roez , but it was not until th 19th senchury a self - conshous politikal moovment was formd .
During the latest half of 19th and the first decades of 20th century , the anarchist movement flourished in most parts of the world and had a significant role in worker's struggles for emancipation .
Duering th latst haf of 19th and th furst dikaeds of 20th senchury , th anarkist moovment flourishd in moest parts of th wurld and had a signifikant roel in worker's strugls for emansipashon .
Various branches of anarchism were espoused during those times .
Vaerius branches of anarkizm wer espouzd duering thoes tiems .
Anarchists took part in several revolutions , most notably in the Spanish Civil War , where they were crushed by the fascist forces in 1939 , marking the end of the classical era of anarchism .
Anarkists tuuk part in several revolooshons , moest noetably in th Spanish sivil wor , whaer thae wer crushd bi th fashist forses in 1939 , marking th end of th clasikal eera of anarkizm .
In the last decades of the 20th century and into the 21st century , the anarchist movement has been resurgent once more .
In th last dikaeds of th 20th senchury and into th 21st senchury , th anarkist moovment has been reserjent wunss mor .
Anarchism employs various tactics in order to meet its ideal ends ; these can be broadly separated in revolutionary and evolutionary tactics .
anarkizm employs vaerius taktiks in order to meet its ideal ends ; thees can be braudly sepreited in revolushonaery and evolooshonaery taktiks .
There is significant overlap between the two legs which are merely descriptive .
Thaer is signifikant oeverlap bitween th too legs which ar meerly discriptiv .
Revolutionary tactics aim to bring down authority and state , and have taken a violent turn in the past .
revolushonaery taktiks aem to bring down  authority and staet , and hav taeken a vielen turn in th past .
Evolutionary tactics aim to prefigure what an anarchist society would be like .
Evolooshonaery taktiks aem to preefigur whot an anarkist sosiety wuud be liek .
Anarchist thought , criticism and praxis has played a part in diverse fields of human society .
Anarkist thaut , critisizm and praxsis has plaeid a part in dievers filds  of huemen sosiety .
Criticism of anarchism mainly focuses on it being internally inconsistent , violent and utopian .
Critisizm of anarkizm maenly foecuses on it being internaly inconsistent , vielen and utopian .
Etymology , terminology and definition .
Etimolojy , terminolojy and definishon .
The etymological origin of " anarchism " is from the Ancient Greek " anarkhia " , meaning " without a ruler " , composed of the prefix " an - " ( i.e . " without " ) and the word " arkhos " ( i.e . " leader " or " ruler " ) .
Th etimolojikal orijin of " anarkizm " is from th aenshent greek " anarkia " , meening " without a ruler " , composd of th prefix " an - " ( i.e . " without " ) and th wurd " arkos " ( i.e . " leeder " or " ruler " ) .
The suffix " - ism " denotes the ideological current that favours anarchy .
Th sufix " - izm " dinoets th iedeolojikal curent that faevur anarky .
Anarchism appears in English from 1642 as " anarchisme " and " anarchy " from 1539 .
Anarkizm apeers in english from 1642 as " anarkizm " and " anarky " from 1539 .
Various factions within the French Revolution labelled their opponents as " anarchists " , although few such accused shared many views with later anarchists .
Vaerius fakshons within th french Revolooshon labeld thaer oponents as " anarkists " , aulthor fue such akuesed shaerd meny vues with laeter anarkists .
Many revolutionaries of the 19th century such as William Godwin ( 1756 – 1836 ) and Wilhelm Weitling ( 1808 – 1871 ) would contribute to the anarchist doctrines of the next generation , but they did not use " anarchist " or " anarchism " in describing themselves or their beliefs .
Meny revolooshonaerys of th 19th senchury such as William Godwin ( 1756 - 1836 ) and Wilhelm Weitling ( 1808 - 1871 ) wuud contribuet to th anarkist doktrins of th next jeneraeshon , but thae did not uess " anarkist " or " anarkizm " in descriebing themselv or thaer beliefs .
The first political philosopher to call himself an " anarchist " ( ) was Pierre - Joseph Proudhon ( 1809 – 1865 ) , marking the formal birth of anarchism in the mid - 19th century .
Th furst politikal filesaufer to caul himself an " anarkist " ( ) was Piere - Josef Proudhon ( 1809 - 1865 ) , marking th formal barth of anarkizm in th mid - 19th senchury .
Since the 1890s and beginning in France , " libertarianism " has often been used as a synonym for anarchism and its use as a synonym is still common outside the United States .
Sinss th 1890s and begining in France , " libertarianism " has ofen been uest as a sinonim for anarkizm and its uess as a sinonim is stil comon outsied th Uenited staets .
On the other hand , some use " libertarianism " to refer to individualistic free - market philosophy only , referring to free - market anarchism as " libertarian anarchism " .
On th uther hand , sum uess " libertarianism " to refer to indivijualistic free - market filesaufy oenly , refering to free - market anarkizm as " libertarian anarkizm " .
While opposition to the state is central to anarchist thought , defining anarchism is not an easy task as there is a lot of talk among scholars and anarchists on the matter and various currents perceive anarchism slightly differently .
Whiel opozishon to th staet is sentral to anarkist thaut , defiening anarkizm is not an eezy task as thaer is a lot of tauk amung skolars and anarkists on th mater and vaerius curents perseev anarkizm slietly differently .
Hence , it might be true to say that anarchism is a cluster of political philosophies opposing authority and hierarchical organization ( including the state , capitalism , nationalism and all associated institutions ) in the conduct of all human relations in favour of a society based on voluntary association , on freedom and on decentralisation , but this definition has the same shortcomings as the definition based on etymology ( which is simply a negation of a ruler ) , or based on anti - statism ( anarchism is much more than that ) or even the anti - authoritarian ( which is an " a posteriori " conclusion ) .
Henss , it miet be troo to say that anarkizm is a cluster of politikal filausefees opoezing authority and hierarkikal organiezaeshon ( inkludin th staet , capitalizm , nashonalizm and all asoesiaeted institueshons ) in th conduct of all huemen relaeshons in faevur of a sosiety baest on voluntary asoesiaeshon , on freedom and on desentralisashon , but this definishon has th saem shortcomings as th definishon baest on etimolojy ( which is simpli a negation of a ruler ) , or baest on anti - statism ( anarkizm is much mor than that ) or eevn th anti - authoritarian ( which is an " a posteriori " conclushon ) .
As anarchism does not offer a fixed body of doctrine from a single particular worldview , many anarchist types and traditions exist and varieties of anarchy diverge widely .
As anarkizm duz not ofer a fixt body of doktrin from a singgl particuelar wurldvue , meny anarkist tieps and tradishons exist and vaeriaetys of anarky dieverj widle .
Classical .
Clasikal .
Inceptive currents among classical anarchist currents were mutualism and individualism .
Inseptiv curents amung clasikal anarkist curents wer mutualizm and indivijualizm .
They were followed by the major currents of social anarchism ( collectivist , communist and syndicalist ) .
Thae wer foloed bi th maejor curents of soeshal anarkizm ( colektivist , comuenist and sindikalist ) .
They differ on organizational and economic aspects of their ideal society .
Thae difer on organizaeshonal and economik aspekts of thaer ideal sosiety .
Mutualism is an 18th - century economic theory that was developed into anarchist theory by Pierre - Joseph Proudhon .
Mutualizm is an 18th - senchury economik theeory that was divelopt into anarkist theeory bi Piere - Joseph Proudhon .
Its aims include reciprocity , free association , voluntary contract , federation , and credit and currency reform that would be regulated by a bank of the people .
Its aems inclood resiprosity , free asoesiaeshon , voluntary contrakt , federaeshon , and credit and curensy reform that wuud be reguelaeted bi a bank of th peepl .
Mutualism has been retrospectively characterised as ideologically situated between individualist and collectivist forms of anarchism .
Mutualizm has been retrospektivly charakteriezd as iedeolojikaly sichuaeted bitween indivijualist and colektivist forms of anarkizm .
Proudhon first characterised his goal as a " third form of society , the synthesis of communism and property " .
Proudhon furst charakteriezd his goel as a " thurd form of sosiety , th sinthesis of comuenizm and properti " .
Collectivist anarchism , also known as anarchist collectivism or anarcho - collectivism , is a revolutionary socialist form of anarchism commonly associated with Mikhail Bakunin .
Colektivist anarkizm , also noen as anarkist colektivizm or anarko - colektivizm , is a revolushonaery soeshalist form of anarkizm comonly asoesiaeted with Mikhail Bakunin .
Collectivist anarchists advocate collective ownership of the means of production , theorised to be achieved through violent revolution , and that workers be paid according to time worked , rather than goods being distributed according to need as in communism .
Colektivist anarkists advokaet colektiv ounership of th meens of produkshon , theeoriezd to be acheevd thru vielen revolooshon , and that wurkers be peid akording to taim wurkd , rather than goods being distribueted akording to need as in comuenizm .
Collectivist anarchism arose alongside Marxism , but rejected the dictatorship of the proletariat despite the stated Marxist goal of a collectivist stateless society .
Colektivist anarkizm aroes alongsaed Marksism , but rejekted th diktaetorship of th proeletaeriat dispiet th staeted Marxsist goel of a colektivist staetles sosiety .
Anarcho - communism , also known as anarchist - communism , communist anarchism and libertarian communism , is a theory of anarchism that advocates a communist society with common ownership of the means of production , direct democracy , and a horizontal network of voluntary associations and workers ' councils with production and consumption based on the guiding principle : " From each according to his ability , to each according to his need " .
Anarko - comuenizm , also noen as anarkist - comuenizm , comuenist anarkizm and libertarian comuenizm , is a theeory of anarkizm that advokaets a comuenist sosiety with comon ounership of th meens of produkshon , direkt dimocrasy , and a horizontal netwurk of voluntary asoesiaeshons and wurkers ‘ counsils with produkshon and consumpshon baest on th gieding prinsipl : " from eech akording to his ability , to eech akording to his need " .
Anarcho - communism developed from radical socialist currents after the French Revolution , but it was first formulated as such in the Italian section of the First International .
Anarko - comuenizm divelopt from radikal soeshalist curents after th french Revolooshon , but it was furst formuelaeted as such in th Italian sekshon of th furst Internashonal .
It was later expanded upon in the theoretical work of Peter Kropotkin .
It was laeter expanded upon in th theeoretikal wurk of Peeter Kropotkin .
Anarcho - syndicalism , also referred to as revolutionary syndicalism , is a branch of anarchism that views labour syndicates as a potential force for revolutionary social change , replacing capitalism and the state with a new society democratically self - managed by workers .
Anarko - sindikalizm , also referd to as revolushonaery sindikalizm , is a branch of anarkizm that vues leibur syndicaet as a potenshal forss for revolushonaery soeshal chaenj , replaessing capitalizm and th staet with a nue sosiety dimocratikaly self - manejd bi wurkers .
The basic principles of anarcho - syndicalism are workers ' solidarity , direct action and workers ' self - management .
Th baesik prinsipls of anarko - sindikalizm ar wurkers ‘ solidarity , direkt akshon and wurkers ‘ self - manejment .
Individualist anarchism refers to several traditions of thought within the anarchist movement that emphasise the individual and their will over any kinds of external determinants .
Indivijualist anarkizm refers to several tradishons of thaut within th anarkist moovment that emfasiez th indivijual and thaer will oever eny kiends of external diterminants .
Early influences on individualist forms of anarchism include William Godwin , Max Stirner and Henry David Thoreau .
Erly influensses on indivijualist forms of anarkizm inclood William Godwin , Max Stirner and Henry David Thoreau .
Through many countries , individualist anarchism attracted a small yet diverse following of Bohemian artists and intellectuals as well as young anarchist outlaws in what became known as illegalism and individual reclamation .
Thru meny cuntrys , indivijualist anarkizm atraekted a smaul yet dievers foloeing of boeheemean artists and intelekchual as wel as yung anarkist outlaws in whot bekaem noen as ileegalizm and indivijual reclameashon .
Post - classical and contemporary .
Post - clasikal and contemporary .

Anarchist principles undergird contemporary radical social movements of the left .
Anarkist prinsipls undergurd contemporary radikal soeshal moovments of th left .
Interest in the anarchist movement developed alongside momentum in the anti - globalization movement , whose leading activist networks were anarchist in orientation .
Interest in th anarkist moovment divelopt alongsaed momentum in th anti - gloebaliezaeshon moovment , hooz leeding aktivist networks wer anarkist in orientaeshon .
As the movement shaped 21st century radicalism , wider embrace of anarchist principles signaled a revival of interest .
As th moovment shaept 21st senchury radikalizm , wieder embraess of anarkist prinsipls signaled a revaivl of interest .
Contemporary news coverage which emphasizes black bloc demonstrations has reinforced anarchism's historical association with chaos and violence , although its publicity has also led more scholars to engage with the anarchist movement .
Contemporary nuez cuverej which emfasiezes blak blok dimonstraeshon has reinforcd anarkizm's historikal asoesiaeshon with chaeos and vielenss , aulthor its publisity has also led mor skolars to engaej with th anarkist moovment .

Anarchism has continued to generate many philosophies and movements — at times eclectic , drawing upon various sources , and syncretic , combining disparate concepts to create new philosophical approaches .
Anarkizm has continued to jeneraet meny filausefees and moovments - at tiems eclektik , drawing upon vaerius sorses , and sinkretik , combiening disparat consepts to creaet nue filesaufikal aproeches .
Anarchist and non - anarchist feminists differed on suffrage , but still they were supportive of each other .
Anarkist and non - anarkist feminists diferd on sufraj , but stil thae wer suportiv of eech uther .
During the second half of the 20th century , anarchism intermingled with the second wave of anarchism , radicalizing some currents of the feminist movement - and got influenced as well .
Duering th sekond haf of th 20th senchury , anarkizm intermingled with th sekond waev of anarkizm , radicalaezing sum curents of th feminist moovment - and got influenst as wel .
By the latest decades of the 20th century , anarchist and feminists were advocating for rights and autonomy of women , gays , queers and other marginalized groups with some feminist thinkers suggesting the fusion of the two currents .
Bi th latst dikaeds of th 20th senchury , anarkist and feminists wer advokaeting for riets and autonomy of wimen , gaes , kweerz and uther marginaliezd groops with sum feminist thinkers sujesting th fuezhon of th too curents .
With the third wave of anarchism , sexual identity and compulsory heterosexuality were put under the anarchist's microscope and yielded a post - structuralist critique of sexual normality .
With th thurd waev of anarkizm , seksual iedentity and compulsory heterosekshuality wer puut under th anarkist's mikroscop and yilded a post - structuralist criteek of seksual normality .
However , some anarchists distanced themselves from this line of thinking , suggesting it is leaning towards individualism and therefore dropping the cause of social liberation .
However , sum anarkists distenst themselv from this lien of thinking , sujesting it is leening tords indivijualizm and therfor droping th cauz of soeshal liberaeshon .
Anarchism and education .
Anarkizm and ejucaeshon .
Anarchist's interest to education stretches back to the first steps of classical anarchism .
Anarkist's interest to ejucaeshon streches bak to th furst steps of clasikal anarkizm .
Anarchists see proper education that sets the foundations of the future autonomy of the individual and society , as an act of mutual aid .
Anarkists see proper ejucaeshon that sets th foundaeshons of th fuecher autonomy of th indivijual and sosiety , as an akt of mutual aed .
Anarchists writers such as Willian Godwin and Max Stirner attacked both state orchestrated public education and elitist education as they saw it as another way for the ruling class to replicate their privileges .
Anarkists rieters such as Willian Godwin and Max Stirner atakt boeth staet orchestraited publik ejucaeshon and elitist ejucaeshon as thae sau it as anuther wae for th ruling clas to replicaet thaer privilejes .
In 1901 , Catalan anarchist and free thinker Francisco Ferrer established the modern in Barcelona in defiance of an educational system controlled by the Catholic Church .
In 1901 , catalan anarkist and free thinker Francisco Ferer establisht th modern in Barcelona in difienss of an ejucaeshonal sistem controeld bi th cathlik church .
Ferrer's approach was secular , rejecting both the state and church involvement in the educational process and gave pupils plenty of autonomy ( i.e . on setting the curriculum ) .
Ferer's aproech was sekular , rejekting boeth th staet and church involvment in th ejucaeshonal prosess and gaev pupils plenty of autonomy ( i.e . on seting th curikuelum ) .
Ferrer was aiming to educate the working class .
Ferer was aeming to ejucaet th wurking clas .
The school closed after constant harassment by the state and Ferrer was later on arrested .
Th scool cloezd after constant harasment bi th staet and Ferer was laeter on arested .
Ferrer's ideas generally formed the inspiration for a series of modern schools around the world .
Ferer's iedies jeneraly formd th insperaeshon for a seriz of modern skools around th wurld .
Christian anarchist Leo Tolstoy had also established a school , it ' s major principle was " for education to be effective it had to be free " , as Tolstoy himself explained .
Chrischan anarkist Leo Tolstoy had also establisht a scool , it ‘ s maejor prinsipl was " for ejucaeshon to be efektiv it had to be free " , as Tolstoy himself explaend .
In a similar token , A .
In a similar token , A .
S .
S .
Neill founding what became Summerhill School in 1921 , also declaring being free from coercion .
Neill founding whot bekaem Summerhill scool in 1921 , also diclaering being free from coershon .
All anarchist schools were based mostly on a moral value , namely respecting children's right to develop freely without manipulations .
All anarkist skools wer baest moestly on a moral value , naemly respekting children's riet to develop freely without manipulaeshon .
However , they faced the dilemma of whether they should guide youngsters towards political and class struggles .
However , thae faest th dilema of whether thae shuud gied yungsters tords politikal and clas strugls .
Most anarchist educators of early 20th century did not take a neutral stance ; the specific question kept troubling anarchist the decades to come .
Moest anarkist ejucaetors of erly 20th senchury did not taek a nutral stanss ; th spasifik qeschon kept truubling anarkist th dikaeds to cum .
Some decades later , anarchist authors such Colin Ward , Hearbert Read and Paul Goodman intensified and expanded anarchist's critique to state education , even the need for schooling as a pedagogical method , suggesting a system that would focus on children's creativity rather than turning them into career - hunters .
Sum dikaeds laeter , anarkist authors such Colin Ward , Hearbert Read and Paul Goodman intensify and expanded anarkist's criteek to staet ejucaeshon , eevn th need for skooling as a pedagojikal method , sujesting a sistem that wuud foecus on children's creaetivity rather than turning them into career - hunters .
While not many anarchists schools survived to the current era , major tenets of anarchists schools , such as respect for child autonomy and freedom , relying on reasoning rather than indoctrination , have spread in mainstream educational institutions portraying themselves as democratic .
Whiel not meny anarkists skools survievd to th curent eera , maejor tenets of anarkists skools , such as respekt for chield autonomy and freedom , releeing on reezoning rather than indoctrinaeshon , hav spred in maenstrim ejucaeshonal institueshons portraying themselv as dimocratik .
Anarchism and the state .
Anarkizm and th staet .
Objection to the state and its institutions is " sine qua non " of anarchism .
Obshekshon to th staet and its institueshons is " sine qua non " of anarkizm .
Anarchists consider the state as a tool of domination and it is illegitimate regardless of political tendencies .
Anarkists consider th staet as a tool of dominaeshon and it is ilejitimat regardles of politikal tendensees .

