 

FADD - Fracture Analysis by Distributed Dislocations

A stress analysis method and graphical-user interface (GUI) system has been
developed at NASA Langley Research Center. Fracture Analysis by Distributed
Dislocations (FADD) uses an advanced method to model a crack or multiple
non-straight cracks in an arbitrarily-shaped plate subjected to general
internal and external loading. The GUI is menu driven with options to help
the user input the cracked body and loading of interest.

 

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Aircraft damage tolerance analysis.
   * Component level 2D stress analysis for the aerospace, automobile, and
     nuclear power industries.
   * Stress level prediction for structural components (e.g. pressure
     vessel, piping, fittings).

Benefits

   * Very efficient method for solving planar crack problems.
   * User-friendly menu-driven environment to input complex bodies and
     loading.

The Technology

Researchers at the University of Texas, the Analytical Services & Materials,
Inc., and NASA Langley have developed a graphical-user interface stress
analysis system for two-dimensional cracked or uncracked bodies. The FADD
methodology calculates stresses in a cracked body using a concept of
distributed dislocations to model the crack, and ordinary boundary elements
to model internal and external boundaries. The method requires very few
elements to model a cracked structural component and produces very accurate
stress and displacement solutions.

FADD efficiently performs stress analysis of 2D cracked bodies containing
single, multiple, and non-straight cracks. Other features of the FADD system
include the capability to examine multiple body configurations, and
calculate crack stress concentration and intensity factors. A user-friendly
GUI has been developed, and stress analysis codes have been developed for
both workstation and personal computer systems.

Options for Commercialization

NASA Langley seeks industry partners to cooperatively develop commercial
products based on the FADD technology. This commercialization opportunity is
part of the NASA Technology Transfer Program. The objective of this program
is to proactively involve the private sector in NASA's programs to ensure
that the technology will have maximum commercial impact. Suitability of this
technology to specific needs can be investigated at NASA Langley.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

