 

Under NASA sponsorship, Analytical Services and Materials, Inc. developed
this computer software for IBM PC compatible desktop computers. This
software can be used by design engineers to calculate thermo-mechanical
properties and microstresses within laminae and yarns of laminated and
textile composites.

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Laminated composite analysis Textile composite analysis
   * Microcracking analysis
   * Strength and fatigue life analysis
   * Composite development
   * Polymeric composites
   * Metal matrix composites
   * Ceramic matrix composites

 
MICSTRAN PC User Interface

Benefits

   * Performance:
        o only minutes of computation time on IBM PC 386/486 computers
        o supports MS Windows 3.0 and 3.1
        o requires less than 1MB of memory on hard drive and 4MB of RAM
   * Key Features: requires only brief description of fiber and matrix
     properties, fiber volume fraction, and loading

The Technology

The fiber arrangement in a lamina or a yarn is often represented by a
periodic square or diamond array. Thus, the bulk properties of a lamina or a
yarn in a composite can be represented by those of a repeating unit cell.
MICSTRAN models a single repeating unit cell with either a square or diamond
fiber arrangement. MICSTRAN uses a classical elasticity solution to
calculate accurate estimates of overall thermo-mechanical properties and
microstresses under combined thermal and multiaxial mechanical loading.
MICSTRAN provides a micromechanics approach for developing composites with
improved cracking resistance and also provides a computational basis for
predicting damage onset, strength, and fatigue life of composite materials.

Options for Commercialization

MICSTRAN is developed as part of NASA's Aeronautics Program and is available
for commercialization by industry partners. This opportunity is part of the
NASA Technology Transfer Program. The objective of this program is to
proactively involve the private sector in NASA's programs to ensure that the
technology developed will have maximum commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

