 

An Efficient Method for Designing Strong and Safe Structures Under Dynamic
Loading Conditions

A dynamic loads analysis method, based on matched filter theory, has been
developed for application to both linear and nonlinear structural design.
The method determines the maximum load experienced by the structure for a
given type of input.

 Current Application: Gust Loads on Aircraft

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Aircraft Design: loads from atmospheric turbulence
   * Building Design: loads from wind and earthquakes
   * Ship Design: loads from wind and waves
   * Bridge Design: loads from wind and earthquakes
   * Automobile Design: loads from rough roads

Benefits

Performance: Gust-loads application can provide:

   * Reduction in both computational effort and engineering time
     requirements compared to other methods of calculating gust loads

Key Features:

   * Simple to implement
   * Offers a consistent way of dealing with both linear and nonlinear
     structural design problems
   * Can calculate time-correlated loads

 Potential Application: Earthquake Loads on Buildings

The Technology

For almost a decade NASA has been a consultant to the FAA in the latter's
pursuit of identifying an analysis method for certifying an airplane for
gust loads when the airplane contains control systems with significant
nonlinear conditions. During this time NASA developed and refined its own
analysis method using a technique called matched filter theory (MFT),
originally applied in the detection of returning radar signals. NASA
recognized that this method could be applied not only to airplane design but
to the design of other vehicles such as automobiles and ships and to
structures such as buildings and bridges. All that is required is equations
of motion representing the vehicle or structure and equations representing
the disturbance quantity. For systems whose equations of motion are linear,
there is a duality between the time-domain results from MFT and the results
from conventional random process analysis. For systems whose equations are
either linear or nonlinear, the important quantities from MFT are also
obtainable from stochastic simulation.

Options for Commercialization

NASA seeks to assist all interested parties in applying MFT to their
structural design problem. The FAA recently funded NASA to develop a
computer program to perform the MFT based method for nonlinear aircraft gust
response analysis. This code is not strictly limited to aircraft
applications, and it can be utilized on any structural design problem where
an analytical model of the structure is available and the character of the
excitation is known. This code, technical papers, and assistance are
available upon request. This commercial opportunity is part of the NASA
Technology Transfer Program. The objective of this program is to pro
actively involve the private sector in NASA's programs to ensure that the
technology developed will have maximum commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

