 

Equation Solvers,   {x} = {b} on High-Performance Computers

Several new NASA algorithms to solve large systems of simultaneous equations
now allow most scientific and engineering problems to be solved
significantly faster. User feedback from structural analysis, crash
dynamics, electromagnetics and optimization applications show typical
speedups of from 2-20 over the best existing solvers. The NASA equation
solvers also reduce the memory required for solution. This allows
applications, formerly requiring a supercomputer, to be solved on relatively
"inexpensive" workstations. For example, the NASA solver reduced the
analysis time of the 218,000 equation NASA Ames Wind Tunnel shown from days
to 2 minutes on a Cray C-90 and 15 minutes on an IBM 590 workstation.

 

A complete automobile structural analysis with 264,000 equations was solved
in 1 minute on a Cray C-90 and six minutes on an IBM workstation.

 

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Structural Analysis
   * Electromagnetic Analysis
   * Finite Element Analysis
   * Impact (Crash) Analysis
   * Physics, Computer Science

Benefits

   * Performance: Less time and memory required to solve very large systems
     (millions) of equations. Comprehensive "intractable" problems now
     solveable.
   * Key Features: Adapts to general-purpose finite element structural
     analysis codes; portable (100% FORTRAN - operational on most
     computers).
   * Availability: Source code, benchmarks and documentation available on
     request.

The Technology

Reliable predictions of detailed stress and displacement states are required
during the design of aerospace, marine, building and automotive structures
to understand structural behavior in order to reduce costs and extend life.
Detailed finite element models provide accurate detailed stress and
displacement predictions of structures with complex geometry. However, the
more accurate and detailed the model, the longer it takes to solve the
underlying equations and store the associated data. The new NASA algorithms
solve the underlying equations faster than any known method for arbitrary
applications and allow even larger, more accurate models to be analyzed.
Along with the solution of the equations, an error norm is provided
indicating the overall accuracy.

Results of the NASA equation solvers have been demonstrated and validated
using dozens of benchmark models previously solved by well-known Library
Solvers, and solvers in the NASA Computational Mechanics Testbed (COMET),
NASTRAN and other commercial codes. In all cases, the NASA solvers were
faster and more accurate than other solvers.

Options for Commercialization

NASA seeks software vendors and other corporate organizations interested in
marketing and/or utilizing NASA high-performance solver algorithms. IBM has
been granted non-exclusive cooperative research rights to develop and market
the NASA high-performance equation solvers. The terms of the agreement,
however, allow additional commercialization of this technology.

This commercialization opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer
Program. The objective of this program is to pro actively involve the
private sector in NASA's programs to ensure that the technology developed
will have maximum commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

