 

Textile reinforced composites are strong and lightweight and can be made
using low-cost processes. Under NASA sponsorship, Analytical Services and
Materials, Inc. developed the TEXCAD desktop computer software for Macintosh
and PC desktop computers. This software can be used by design engineers to
calculate mechanical properties of textile composites.

Potential Commercial Uses

   * 2D laminated composite (classical lamination theory)
   * 3D spatially oriented composite (whisker & chopped fiber composites,
     etc.)
   * 2D weaves (plain, 5-harness satin, 8-harness satin, etc.)
   * 2D braids
   * 2D 2x2 triaxial braids
   * 2D 1x1 triaxial braids
   * 3D multi-interlock 5-layer braids
   * Other (supplied by user)

 
TEXCAD PC User Interface

Benefits

   * Performance:
        o only minutes of computation time on Macintosh Quadra and PC 486
          computers
        o PC version supports MS Windows 3.0 and 3.1
        o requires less than 1MB of memory on hard drive and 4 MB of RAM
   * Key Features: requires only brief description of textiles such as yarn
     sizes, yarn properties, braid angle, and fiber volume fraction

The Technology

The architecture of a textile composite is periodic. Thus, the bulk
properties of a textile composite can be represented by those of a repeating
unit cell. TEXCAD models a single repeating unit cell. The centerline of the
yarn paths is represented by sinusoidal undulations where yarns cross one
another. The yarn paths are segmented and overall stiffnesses are computed
using a 3D stress averaging procedure and assuming uniform strain. Strengths
are calculated using a model of a curved beam on an elastic foundation. The
applied loads are incremented and stiffness properties are reduced for
failed yarn segments. Nonlinear shear and geometric effects can be
simulated. TEXCAD calculates thermal coefficients of expansion, residual
thermal stresses, and estimates of damage evolution and strength for various
states of applied stress.

Options for Commercialization

TEXCAD is developed as part of NASA's Aeronautics Program and is available
for commercialization by industry partners. This commercialization
opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer Program. The objective
of this program is to proactively involve the private sector in NASA's
programs to ensure that the technology developed will have maximum
commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

