 

Reliability & Maintainability Predictive Software

A methodology has been developed for defining support requirements of new
aircraft and reusable launch vehicles during conceptual analysis. This
method is capable of working with a limited level of concept definition to
define the support that is consistent with both the design and the
operational concept.

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Military and aircraft industries

Benefits

   * Provides method for defining support parameters during conceptual
     design
   * Provides method for top level design trades based on support

 
Operations Scenario

 
Reliability and Maintainability Model

 
Vehicle Maintenance

The Technology

This Reliability and Maintainability (R&M) capability addresses the problem
of defining reasonable expectations for turnaround times and manpower
requirements of conceptual vehicles. It is predicated on the assumption that
these requirements should be based on the maintenance actions generated by
each mission and the maintenance policy that is chosen to return the vehicle
to flight worthiness. The R&M model provides the critical link between the
operating scenario and the vehicle design. It is based on comparability to
either aircraft or Shuttle subsystem support requirements. The input
requires vehicle definition in terms of overall dimensions and weight. The
model predicts the number of maintenance actions required for each subsystem
based on the user's choice of comparability to either aircraft or Shuttle
reliability and maintainability histories. Mission length and space
environmental differences are accounted for when using the aircraft data.
The use of Shuttle data requires heuristic adjustments. Maintenance policies
are input through the choices of parameters that reflect those
characteristic of either Shuttle or aircraft maintenance support policies or
the user can create his own policy. The output can then be used to define
the turnaround and manpower requirements based on the system design and
choice of maintenance concept. This prototype model has been used for
in-house studies of new concepts here at Langley. Model enhancements to
improve user flexibility are being studied.

Options for Commercialization

NASA is seeking interested parties in further developing this technology.
This commercial opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer Program.
The objective of this program is to pro actively involve the private sector
in NASA's programs to ensure that the technology developed will have maximum
commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

