 

Computational Fluid Dynamics

Computational fluid dynamics (CFD) is defined as the numerical simulation of
fluid dynamic flows. The field has grown rapidly over the past 25 years
through advances in computer speed and algorithm efficiency into a mature
tool for analysis and design. Viscous flow computations that were
impractical 15 years ago can now be done on engineering workstations. In the
aerospace industry, CFD is widely used and complements the traditional
methods of experiment and theory for the design of aerospace vehicles.
However, the technology has broad applications and is applicable to any
component or device that operates in a fluid.

 
Flow field computed over the F-18 vehicle at high angle of attack

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Analysis and design of aerospace vehicles: drag reduction studies for
     supersonic and subsonic transports, performance predictions of highly
     maneuvering aircraft, propulsion-airframe integrations,
     single-stage-to-orbit vehicles
   * Automotive applications: under-hood cooling flows, internal combusting
     flows, external drag reduction, passenger compartment air ventilation,
     windshield deicing, sunroof designs
   * Other applications: submarine and surface ships designs, building wind
     loads, turbines, compressors, blood flows, cooling devices

Benefits

   * Full flow-field detail: The entire flow field is available for display
     and interrogation. In many cases, this information is impractical to
     obtain otherwise.
   * Reduced cost: Costly experiments and flight tests can be replaced with
     parametric computational evaluations.
   * Faster turnaround: In many cases, a CFD simulation can be constructed
     and evaluated within hours to provide results much faster than through
     experiment.
   * Reduced variation: A CFD simulation can overcome restrictions
     associated with experiment or flight tests, such as power limitations,
     support interference effects, model imperfection effects, or scale
     effects.

 
Characteristics of the six NASA-developed codes for distribution as part of
this technology opportunity

The Technology

CFD is a discipline that solves a set of equations governing the fluid flow
over any geometrical configuration. The equations can represent steady or
unsteady, compressible or incompressible, and inviscid or viscous flows,
including nonideal and reacting fluid behavior. The particular form chosen
depends on the intended application. The state of the art is characterized
by the complexity of the geometry, the flow physics, and the computer time
required to obtain a solution. The field has been well established for
inviscid flows, in which viscosity is neglected. Laminar flows and turbulent
flows, modeled through a statistical process termed Reynolds averaging, are
being computed for complete aircraft configurations. The direct simulation
of high-Reynolds-number turbulent flows is beyond practical realization,
except in narrow ranges of Reynolds number and geometry. However, these
direct simulations are used for flow modeling and control studies, such as
for transition control and in the development of better Reynolds-averaged
models.

 
Example of an adaptive grid computation for transonic flow over an airfoil

Options for Commercialization

NASA seeks industrial partners with requirements for commercial product
design and analysis that can be met with advanced CFD tools. The methods
have been highly refined for aerospace industry use but have many other
applications. Partnerships are sought to explore these other applications.
For instance, NASA Langley is evaluating CFD technology for under-hood
cooling and passenger compartment ventilation with Ford Motor Company. Six
codes are available for release to U.S. companies, including structured and
unstructured grid codes for viscous and inviscid flows. The general
capabilities of the codes are summarized in the accompanying table. This
commercialization opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer
Program. The objective of this program is to proactively involve the private
sector in NASA's programs to ensure that the technology developed will have
maximum commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

