 

Shaping Joints to Reduce Thermal Stress

A procedure for reducing thermal stress by shaping a material interface
between two materials with different coefficients of thermal expansion
(CTE's) has been developed at Langley Research Center. The technique allows
materials to expand thermally while remaining in contact to provide a snug,
thermal-stress-free joint at all temperatures. A partial differential
equation, which governs the shape of such an interface, was derived and
solved to produce and algebraic equation for the shape of a
thermal-stress-free fastener.

 
Sample thermal-stress-free fastener shapes for various material
combinations.

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Metal fasteners for joining high temperature materials
   * Rotors on shafts in gas turbine engines.
   * Carbon/carbon piston inserts.
   * Ceramic leading-edge wing design.

Benefits

   * Snug, thermal-stress-free joints are maintained at all temperatures.
   * Materials with different coefficients of thermal expansion can expand
     freely with temperature yet remain in contact.

The Technology

Carbon or ceramic-based composite materials are becoming an increasingly
attractive design option for structural components exposed to high
temperature, because they reduce weight and increase efficiency. Many of
these composite components will be joined to metal components in some
fashion. The high-temperature materials have much lower coefficients of
linear thermal expansion then the metals they are joined to, which makes it
difficult to design a structural joint that remains tight over the
operational temperature range. An approach for shaping the interfaces
between dissimilar materials to reduce or eliminate thermal stresses while
maintaining a snug fit has been developed. The graphic shows joints in which
a fastener has been designed such that the fastener and structural materials
are free to expand thermally while remaining in contact to provide a snug,
thermal-stress-free joint at all temperatures.

Currently this approach has been used to find an interface between two
materials with different CTE's in all three principal material directions,
such that the two materials remain in contact without interference or
separation, as temperature changes. The joint was modeled and tested
numerically, and the thermal stresses in the shaped fastener are
considerably lower that those measured in a typical cylindrical fastener.
The technique used for the design of the fastener can be applied over a
range of applications including carbon/carbon piston inserts and rotor-shaft
designs in gas turbine engines.

Options for Commercialization

This technology opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer Program.
The program seeks to stimulate development of commercial applications from
NASA-developed technology. A procedure for thermal-stress-free joining has
been developed and tested for shaped fasteners. Suitability of this
technology to specific needs can be investigated at Langley.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

