 

STAGS/FRANC3D - Structural and Fracture Analysis

STAGS is a geometric and material nonlinear finite element code used for the
analysis of shell structures. FRANC3D is an automatic mesh generation code
that performs fracture simulation on specified surfaces. These two codes are
coupled in order to analyze complex structures and structural components
with propagating cracks and to determine their residual strength.

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Linear and nonlinear stress and stability analyses
   * Damage tolerance and residual strength analyses of aircraft structural
     components
   * Fracture analysis of pressure vessels such as water tanks
   * Fracture analysis and damage tolerance analysis of marine vehicles
   * Fracture analysis and damage tolerance analysis of automobile
     components

Benefits

   * Most advanced nonlinear structural analysis code available
   * Minimum computer resources required for complicated analysis
   * Ability to model straight and curved crack growth in a nonlinear
     equilibrium state

 
Global Model of Fuselage Section

The Technology

STAGS is a geometric and material nonlinear finite element code for general
shell structures and is capable of conducting strength, stability, and
collapse analyses. STAGS can perform crack-propagation and residual strength
analyses that represent the effects of crack growth on nonlinear shell
response. Curved crack growth is simulated with adaptive mesh refinement
using the solid modeling code FRANC3D. When modeling curved cracks, FRANC3D
is used as a graphical interface between the user and STAGS. Results include
strain energy release rates and stress intensity factors. A critical
crack-tip opening angle (CTOA) is used to calculate residual strength.

The figure shows an analytical study of the nonlinear response of a
stiffened fuselage section with long cracks using STAGS/ FRANC3D. The
structure is modeled with a hierarchical modeling strategy that accurately
accounts for global and local response phenomena. The hierarchical models
consist of a global fuselage section model and several smaller stiffened
panel models. Internal pressure and mechanical bending loads are applied to
the global model to obtain the proper load distribution. Boundary conditions
are transferred from the global model to the smaller stiffened panel models
which are used to study local effects. The effects of crack location and
orientation on the response of the fuselage section are evaluated, as well
as the effects of mechanical fasteners on the response of a lap joint in the
structure.

Options for Commercialization

NASA Langley seeks industry partners to cooperatively develop commercial
products based on the STAGS/FRANC3D technology. This commercialization
opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer Program. The objective
of this program is to proactively involve the private sector in NASA's
programs to ensure that the technology will have maximum commercial impact.
Suitability of this technology to specific needs can be investigated at NASA
Langley.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

