 

Interface Technology for Finite Element Models

A new method for connecting finite element models has been developed. This
method, called Interface Technology, is an improved technique for joining
multiple, dissimilar meshed models to form a single finite element model.
Compared with conventional transition modeling techniques, this new method
will allow designers to create models for structural analysis faster and
more easily, and the computer simulations will be more accurate.

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Finite Element Analysis Software
   * CAD/CAE software

Benefits

   * Performance: Method reduces complexity of finite element modeling
     process and increases accuracy of analysis
   * Key Features: Adaptable to general purpose finite element structural
     analysis codes
   * Construction: Programmed in machine independent FORTRAN and
     demonstrated on numerous computer platforms

The Technology

Reliable predictions of detailed stress states are needed during the design
of almost any structure to understand and predict the behavior and failure
mechanisms of such structures. While the finite element method can provide
accurate detailed stress predictions of structures with complex geometry,
fine mesh discretizations of the structures are needed in the vicinity of a
stress or strain concentration. The resulting finite element models
generally contain both fine and coarse finite element meshes. Obtaining fine
finite element meshes in certain regions and coarse meshes in other regions
usually requires transition modeling that is tedious, costly, and time
consuming. In addition, the transition modeling usually results in distorted
elements throughout the transition region which introduces errors in the
analysis. The Interface Technology method does not require nodal
compatibility on substructure boundaries; therefore, the required fine mesh
can be created and used without resorting to complex mesh transitioning.
This technology allows detailed, independently created, component models and
other models such as repair models, to be easily inserted into global models
for analysis.

For the engineer who is applying this interface technology, the models of
the substructures can be developed in the usual manner (e.g., with PATRAN).
The data that describes how the substructures are connected is the only
additional information necessary. This ease of modeling along with the
capability to easily integrate sub-models within a complex structure
provides a significant benefit over other known methodologies for this type
analysis. Results using this method have been demonstrated and validated
using the NASA Computational Mechanics Testbed (COMET) code.

Options for Commercialization

NASA seeks industry partners to cooperatively develop commercial products or
extensions to existing commercial products based on the Interface
Technology. The MacNeal-Schwendler Corporation, through a Cooperative
Research Agreement (CRA) has been granted nonexclusive cooperative research
rights to develop and market a module for MSC/NASTRAN which will utilize the
Interface Technology. The terms of this CRA, however, allow for additional
commercialization of this technology.

This commercialization opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer
Program. The objective of this program is to ensure that the technology
developed will have maximum commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

