 

Integration of Mechanical Design, Analysis, and Fabrication Processes

Mechanical design has been integrated with thermal, structural and optical
analysis, and with fabrication. Electronic import of the model geometry
eliminates the repetitive steps of geometry input to develop each analysis
model, leading to faster and more accurate analyses. Electronic transfer of
a part to fabrication eliminates the need to manually input a complex
geometry into a numeric control (NC) machine.

 

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Any design or manufacturing process, e.g.
        o Automotive
        o Appliance
        o Plastics
        o Airplane
        o Nuclear
   * Laboratory optical testing
   * Automated process analysis
   * Nuclear plant analysis

Benefits

   * Rapid model development
   * Accuracy and precision of models
   * Ease of analysis transfer
   * Automatic tolerance definition and fit-checking
   * True optical performance predictions
   * Rapid, efficient and exact fabrication

 

The Technology

In many industries there has recently been a concerted movement toward
concurrent engineering: the idea of integrating the design and analysis
processes so that they are not separate, sequential processes (often
involving design rework due to analytical findings) but instead form an
integrated system with smooth transfers of information. Electronic
integration of design and analysis processes was achieved and refined at
NASA Langley Research Center during the development of an optical bench for
a laser-based aerospace experiment. Accurate predictions of optical bench or
test bed deflections are necessary to calculate beam paths and determine
optical performance. All analysis processes have lately been challenged to
create a more streamlined process and include all known variables to produce
the best possible predictions. These goals can be accomplished by using an
integrated process to accomplish design and all analyses. This integrated
analysis process has been built around software that was already in use by
designers and analysts at NASA Langley. The process as currently implemented
at NASA Langley uses Pro/Engineer for design, Pro/Manufacturing for
fabrication, PATRAN for modeling and post-processing, NASTRAN or Mechanica
for structural analysis, SINDA or P/Thermal for thermal analysis, and CODE-V
for optical analysis. At the present time, the only analysis model that must
be built manually is the CODE-V model; all others can be imported from the
Pro/E geometry. The results from the thermal and structural analyses can be
exported to CODE-V to produce optical analyses based on the predicted
deflections due to temperature and load distributions. Most of these
integration and interface steps are also possible with other software,
although some of the translators were developed or modified for use with
this specific software.

 

 

Options for Commercialization

This type of design/analysis/fabrication integration is being developed by
many manufacturing companies (such as automotive). This technology is an
extension of commercially available software functions, and includes some
in-house developed code and methods. There is no patent licensing involved.
Our status in this integration is displayed to assist companies that are
attempting to more fully integrate their own design and analysis processes.

   * Software available free of charge* from the COmputer Software
     Management and Information Center (COSMIC)
        o NASTRAN (structural)
        o SINDA-85 (thermal)
        o PATCOD (PATRAN to CODE-V)**
        o PATEAL (PATRAN to EAL)**

* To government and those government contractors requiring the software for
a specific contract
** To be released in the near future

   * Commercial codes used*
        o ProEngineer (design/fab)
        o PATRAN (modeling)
        o CODE-V (optical)
        o MSC NASTRAN (structural)
        o Mechanica (structural)

* Listing of these commercial programs does not constitute an endorsement by
NASA

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

