 

Mathematical Tool for Computing Sensitivity Derivatives by Automatic
Differentiation

Automatic Differentiation technique is a powerful computational method that
provides a means to obtain exact sensitivity derivatives from existing
computer programs for use in multidisciplinary design optimization or in
sensitivity analysis. Argonne National Laboratory and Rice University have
developed a pre-compiler automatic differentiation tool for FORTRAN programs
called ADIFOR that has been easily and quickly applied by NASA Langley
researchers to assess the feasibility and computational impact of AD in MDO
with numerous different FORTRAN programs.

Potential Commercial Uses

Uses by Problem Application:

   * Manufacturing
   * Computers, Automobiles, Aerospace
   * Vehicles, Chemical Products, Shipbuilding, Structures
   * Agriculture, Forestry, Environmental Studies, Oceanography,
     Meteorology,
   * Astrodynamics, Hydraulics, Finance and Economics, Power Generation

Uses by Problem Type:

   * Design, Control, Error Analysis, Approximation, Optimization,
     Prediction, Synthesis, Trade-off Studies, Parameter Estimation,
     Sensitivity Analysis

 

Benefits

Automatic differentiation provides significant benefits compared to other
methods, such divided differences, symbolic manipulators, and
hand-differentiation, for obtaining sensitivity derivatives for
multidisciplinary design optimization.

   * Exact sensitivity derivatives
   * Automatic - dependency tracing, derivative formulation, and code
     generation
   * Robust - full Fortran 77 support
   * Flexible - allows for changes in design variables and objective
     functions
   * Easy - simple user interface and exception handling
   * Reliable - no guess of proper step size as in divided differences
   * Exploits sparsity in gradient calculation
   * Execution speed comparable to, or faster than, other SD methods
   * Extendable to other languages and higher- order derivatives

 

The Technology

Computer models of many seemingly diverse systems including aerospace
vehicles, consumer products, economics, and manufacturing processes
generally admit certain free parameters, chosen within some reasonable
domains. The models produce one or more measures of goodness about a product
or process, but the system may be required to satisfy a number of
constraints imposed for safety, quality, and profitability. The measures of
goodness are generally related in complex ways to the free parameters and
the constraints within the model. The effects of the individual parameters
and constraints on the measures of goodness within a system can be
quantified by a matrix of terms known as sensitivity derivatives (SD). The
system SD can be approximated by divided differences (DD), obtained exactly
by hand differentiation of analytic relationships, or through symbolic
manipulators. However, each of these methods has certain disadvantages,
which become more significant as the size and complexity of the problems
increase. An entirely new way to obtain the desired SD matrix, which
addresses many of these problems, is through the computational technique of
automatic differentiation (AD), as embodied in the ADIFOR tool. The ADIFOR
tool has been easily and quickly applied by NASA Langley researchers to
assess the feasibility and computational impact of AD in MDO with numerous
different FORTRAN programs, including a complex solver for a wing in
transonic turbulent flow. With ADIFOR, the user identifies sets of dependent
and independent variables within an existing computer code. Then ADIFOR
traces the dependency path throughout the code, applies the chain rule to
all elementary operations and math functions encountered in the dependency
path, and generates new FORTRAN code that computes the required SD matrix.
The ADIFOR tool works quickly and robustly with minimal user intervention.
The resulting AD codes have been verified to compute the exact SD in about
the same time as that required for a single SD evaluation using centered DD
for extremely complex problems; in other instances AD has been shown to be
substantially faster than DD. Moreover, the AD codes also have been shown to
provide reliable SD in cases for which DD failed to give an accurate answer.
The technique may also offer significant benefits for parallel problem
implementations on distributed memory machines and networks of workstations.

Options for Commercialization

NASA seeks industry partners to cooperatively develop commercial products
based upon the computational technique of automatic differentiation under a
Space Act Agreement. Research in automatic differentiation is jointly funded
by the Department of Energy, the National Science Foundation, and NASA.
ADIFOR is licensed through Argonne National Laboratory and Rice University.
This commercialization opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer
Program. The objective of this program is to involve the private sector in
NASA's programs to ensure that the technology developed will have maximum
commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

