 

Computational Aeroacoustics

Computational aeroacoustics is a rapidly developing new technology which
allows sound generation by flows or bodies moving through fluids to be
calculated from first principles. Such understanding is very useful in noise
reduction.

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Noise reduction: Wind noise, interior noise, fans, HVAC, machinery,
     active noise control
   * Design: Mufflers, loud speakers, industrial valves and piping, concert
     halls, engines, enclosures
   * Diagnostics: Medicine, maintenance scheduling, fault detection

 
Air flow through simulated bronchial tubes

Benefits

   * Knowledge: Noise sources need not be modeled as they develop naturally
     from fluid dynamics
   * Cost reduction: Noise effects of design changes can be evaluated on a
     computer rather than by experiment.

 
Sound generated by a piston in a plate

The Technology

Acoustics is a fully four dimensional phenomenon (three space dimensions
plus time). Thus, its computation from the basic governing equations has
only recently been attempted. However, researchers at NASA Langley Research
Center have developed techniques whereby quite complicated geometries can be
evaluated for noise radiation and reduction concepts with quite modest
computational resources. Although this technology is still in the
developmental stages, the understanding of noise sources which has been
developed as well as the ability to conduct acoustic experiments at a
computer terminal represent a significant breakthrough in acoustic
technology which has wide applications.

Options for Commercialization

NASA seeks industrial partners with noise reduction or design for noise
needs in commercial products which can be met by the available computational
aeroacoustic technology. Although this capability was developed with
aircraft noise applications in mind, it has many benefits outside the
aircraft industry. For example, researchers at Eastern Virginia Medical
School have recently patented a non-intrusive method for diagnosis of airway
blockages. This technique, which was developed in collaboration with NASA
Langley, is now in use in hospitals. This technology opportunity is part of
the NASA Technology Transfer Program. The objective of this program is to
ensure that NASA-developed technology will have maximum benefit in the
private sector.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

