 

Surface Modeling and Grid Generation Software Tools
GEOLAB

Software tools developed at NASA Langley Research Center decrease the
bottleneck in surface modeling and grid generation required for numerical
analyses. These tools aid in the rapid creation of surface models for
conceptual design, the production of computational grids using structured
and unstructured techniques, and evaluation and assurance of grid quality.
As a result, analysis can be made timely and cost effective for design.

 
A multiblock structured volume grid generated in CSCMDO

 
An unstructured grid and surface generated using GridTool and VGRID

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Design of transportation vehicles such as aircraft, automobiles,
     trucks, buses, ships, submarines
   * Design of turbomachinery and pumps
   * Analysis of flow through pipes and ducts
   * Design of internal combustion engines
   * Heat transfer analysis and design of heat exchangers
   * Structural analyses using finite element methods
   * Electromagnetic applications
   * Biomedical applications such as design of prosthetics and anatomical
     systems modeling
   * Analysis of manufacturing processes
   * Integration of analysis into CAD tools

Benefits

   * Fast and convenient generation of grids around complex configurations
   * Increased accuracy in computational grids and analysis
   * Usable by nonexperts
   * Minimal training required
   * Applicable to a wide variety of 2- and 3-D configurations
   * More design alternatives can be evaluated due to shorter design cycle
     turnaround

The Technology

Production of accurate surface representations and grids in the past has
required large amounts of time and considerable training in the tools and
techniques involved. The software tools outlined below are semiautomated and
emphasize ease of use.

SurfACe is an interactive tool for the visualization and analysis of surface
grid data. Ten surface quality variables can be calculated and displayed in
color to highlight subtle grid features that may lead to inaccurate analysis
results.

GridTool bridges the gap between CAD systems and standard grid generators
that require point sets for surface definitions. GridTool reads surface
patches or points as input, neglecting overlaps in the data, and projects
user specified point distributions onto the geometry. GridTool has been
especially useful in producing initial unstructured background grids for the
volume unstructured grid generator VGRID.

VGRID is an unstructured volume grid generator based on advancing front and
advancing layer methods. It produces triangular and tetrahedral unstructured
grids suitable for both inviscid and viscous flow computations. The
animation and computer graphic capability of VGRID enables users to
conveniently generate and debug grids on workstations.

CSCMDO is a multiblock structured volume grid generator. It is designed to
run either in a stand alone-mode or embedded in a design optimization loop.
Changes in geometry shapes driven by processes to optimize performance
require corresponding changes in the numerical grids. New volume grids can
be calculated in seconds using CSCMDO to respond to the shapes imposed at
each cycle of the loop.

RAPID is a program designed for rapid airplane prototyping. The engineering
design parameters defining an airplane are easily varied to provide a fast
method to create a family of airplane configurations, grids, and grid
sensitivities for conceptual design studies. This program can be customized
to produce surfaces that are characteristic of other types of machines or
objects.

Options for Commercialization

The surface modeling and grid generation software tools described can be
used as stand- alone tools that supplement existing applications or can be
embedded in other codes. NASA is actively seeking new users and applications
for this technology. Contingent to NASA software distribution policies, the
software can be made available to interested parties. Training and examples
related to potential user interests can be provided upon request.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

