 

Computational Electromagnetics

Computer Programs for Advanced Antenna Design and Electromagnetic
Scattering/Interference Studies

A series of new computer programs have been developed combining several
analytical methods to form a fast and accurate hybrid solution technique.
The computer programs can be used to analyze and design antennas on a broad
range of vehicles for virtually any application. These programs can also be
used to predict how electromagnetic energy is scattered from a vehicle and
potential interference due to external electromagnetic radiation sources.

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Vehicle Antennas: analysis and design of communication and navigation
     antennas (satellite TV, Airphone, Global Positioning System, cellular
     telephone) for cars, trucks, boats, airplanes, satellites, etc.
   * Interference: analysis and prediction of electromagnetic penetration
     through windows and openings into the airplane cockpit, vehicle
     interior, and electronic devices and instrumentation including health
     and medical devices such as pacemakers, hearing aids, etc.
   * Radar Systems: scattering analysis for aircraft, cars, ships, building
     structures, etc.
   * Hand-held equipment: antenna design and propagation analysis for
     hand-held telephones, mobile radios (police, etc.), GPS.

 

Benefits

   * Optimal System Performance: antenna locations optimized for a given
     vehicle without expensive hardware testing
   * New Antenna Designs: conformal and low profile antennas can be designed
     and modified for a specific vehicle or application
   * Validated Code: hybrid computational methods validated experimentally
     for scattering and antenna design on NASA sponsored projects
   * Improved computational efficiency: advantages of each individual
     technique are retained, common graphics interface is used, fast matrix
     solvers are employed

The Technology

Electromagnetic wave scattering, penetration and antenna radiation on a
user-defined complex vehicle can be determined by various analytical
methods. At low frequencies (long wavelengths) techniques such as method of
moments (MoM), finite element method (FEM), and finite difference time
domain (FDTD) are used while at high frequencies (short wavelengths) other
techniques such as physical optics (PO), geometrical optics (GO) and
diffraction techniques are used. Researchers at the NASA Langley Research
Center in cooperation with Arizona State University, the University of
Michigan, the Ohio State University, and Hampton University have developed
hybrid methods which take advantage of a combination of the above techniques
for user defined applications. The use of efficient mathematical
formulations and computer modeling routines has resulted in considerable
reduction in the computational time required to perform electromagnetic
simulations.

Options for Commercialization

NASA seeks industry partners to cooperatively develop and/or enhance
commercial products utilizing a menu driven integrated electromagnetic
solver program employing the hybrid analytical technique approach. The joint
partnership would provide commercialization opportunities which are
important to the NASA Technology Transfer Program. In addition, it assures
that the technology developed through a cooperation effort will have
commercial utility and foster assistance to the partners in establishing a
stronger competitiveness in the global marketplace.

This commercialization opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer
Program. The objective of this program is to proactively involve the private
sector in NASA's programs to ensure that the technology developed will have
maximum commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

