 

LaSRS++ Object-Oriented Real-Time Flight Simulation Software

A real-time simulation architecture has been developed utilizing
object-oriented analysis and design techniques. The architecture has been
implemented using the object-oriented programming language C++. This has
resulted in a highly flexible system capable of simulating multiple
instances of dynamic objects. These objects can be distributed across
multiple CPUs (Central Processing Units).

 
High level view of dynamic vehicle simulation architecture

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Real-Time man in the loop training simulations: fighters, transports,
     general aviation, ships, trucks, cars, air traffic control
   * Entertainment: video games, home flight simulators
   * Engineering tool: analysis of vehicle dynamics, vehicle control system
     analysis, aerodynamic data validation, component level dynamic modeling
   * Education: System modeling to support diagnostic training

Benefits

   * Flexibility: Each object specifies is own interface, behavior, and
     internal states
   * Portability: A high degree of platform independence has been achieved
   * Performance: C++ gives the speed and performance of C, while permitting
     the application of object technology
   * Generic Simulation Model: Supports continuous cyclic or discrete-event
     simulations
   * Reuse: Encapsulation of both data and functions in a single entity
     (object) facilitates reuse

The Technology

The software architecture is a self contained environment that is capable of
supporting any type of dynamic object. All data is encapsulated in classes.
There is no global or public data in this architecture.

Each vehicle contains its own sequence of routines to execute. This allows
each vehicle to have completely different dynamic behavior compared to the
other vehicles in the simulation. Multiple vehicles are simulated
simultaneously and the relative geometry between these vehicles is
calculated.

The main routine driving this simulation is completely independent of both
vehicle (airplane, truck, ship, etc.) and simulation (continuous cyclic or
discrete-event) type. This along with the supporting class library
facilitates the rapid development of new types of vehicles through reuse.

Options for Commercialization

This technology opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer Program.
The program seeks to stimulate development of commercial applications from
NASA developed technology. A real-time simulation architecture has been
developed utilizing object-oriented analysis and design techniques.
Suitability of this technology to specific needs can be investigated at
Langley.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

