 

Software Tool for Modal Analysis and Control Design

The Eigensystem Realization Algorithm (ERA) is a software tool for
calculating modes of vibration from test data. Engineers use modes of
vibration to solve practical vibration problems and to design
active-vibration-control systems. To date, ERA has been used primarily on
spacecraft and aircraft structures; however, it is highly effective for
structures of any type.

 
1st Bending Mode

 
2nd Bending Mode

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Automotive and construction vehicles
   * Rotating machinery
   * Sports equipment (e.g., skis)
   * Musical instruments (e.g., violins)
   * Active control of building vibration
   * Active control of bridge vibration
   * Active noise control
   * Precision manipulators (robotics)
   * Failure detection
   * Characterization of electrical circuits

Benefits

   * Accuracy:
          ERA is accepted throughout the aerospace industry based on its
          proven accuracy with both simple and complex structures. Numerous
          publications document these tests.
   * Features:
          Technical features of ERA include multiple-input, multiple-output
          formulation for closely spaced modes and accuracy indicators for
          result validation.
   * Versions: Available in 2 software versions:
          1. VAX VMS FORTRAN (emphasizes structural modal analysis)
          2. MATLAB (emphasizes control design)
   * Heritage:
          NASA engineers have continuously improved this software since
          1984.

The Technology

Vibration occurs whenever mechanical systems move. Excessive vibration can
cause discomfort or annoyance (including noise), and damage or
inefficiencies in the system. Engineers solve vibration problems using
"modes of vibration," which are "natural" frequencies of a structure at
which large vibration occurs. ERA calculates modes of vibration from test
data.

Engineers at NASA Langley Research Center developed ERA in 1984 as a tool
for modal analysis and control design of future large space structures, such
as NASA's space station. Since then, it has been used and improved
considerably. The VAX VMS FORTRAN version of the software includes a main
program and 70 pre- and post-processors. It provides complete modal analysis
capabilities. There are no limits on problem size. The MATLAB version of the
software is a library of functions for generating state-space models and
observer gains. More than 100 requests have been received from other
organizations for the ERA software.

 
Space Application (Earth observation satellite)

 
Aeronautics Application (Perseus aircraft wing)

Options for Commercialization

NASA offers this software to commercial users at a minimal fee. A User's
Guide accompanies the software. The developers seek users' comments and
experiences, and they are available on a limited basis for consultation. An
exclusive license to market the ERA software will NOT be granted at this
time because software development continues as an integral part of NASA's
internal research program.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

