 

Dataflow Design Tool for Multiprocessing

The Dataflow Design Tool was developed to facilitate the design of
multiprocessor solutions for a class of computational problems. The class of
problems include digital signal processing (DSP) algorithms and control law.
Given a dataflow graph description of the computational problem, the tool
can automatically determine performance bounds, scheduling constraints, and
resource requirements.

 
Dataflow graph

Potential Commercial Uses

Facilitate the mapping of:

   * General-purpose DSP such as filtering
   * Image processing
   * Data compression
   * Digital control algorithms
   * Real-time applications to multiprocessor architectures

 
Steady-state graph play

Benefits

   * Automates the determination of computing performance and resource
     requirements
   * Provides graph-theoretic solutions in a hardware-independent context,
     which is useful
   * Affords fast solutions when varying parameters
   * Can be used with commercial DSP tools

The Technology

The Dataflow Design Tool utilizes the dataflow paradigm to model
computational problems. The dataflow model provides a graphical and
mathematical description of computations that are partially-ordered due to
data dependencies. In this way, the dataflow model exposes all of the
inherent parallelism limited only by data dependencies. The model uses graph
nodes to represent computations which can be scheduled, directed edges to
describe the dataflow between nodes, and tokens to indicate the presence of
data. The nodes are assigned deterministic times that represent the
execution durations of the associated computations. Solving the dataflow
model for timing constraints produces a scheduling range for computations
that exploits the parallelism while ensuring the logical correctness of
computed results. In addition, the directed edges imply physical memory
storage of shared data (buffers), which are implemented with
first-in-first-out queues. Solving the dataflow model for the token bounds
on the edges defines the minimum buffer requirements for data. The Dataflow
Design Tool was developed by NASA-Langley to analytically solve the dataflow
graph for performance bounds, scheduling constraints, and resource
requirements (i.e., processors and buffers). The tool automatically solves
the model for performance metrics and displays these metrics numerically and
graphically. Features are provided that permit user interaction for purposes
of changing model parameters and selecting optimum solutions. The tool is
written in C++ for Microsoft Windows 3.1 or NT, is menu driven, and boasts
many user-friendly features such as on-line help documentation. By employing
textual files for dataflow-graph input and measurement output, the tool can
be easily linked with complementary tools, resulting in an enhanced tool
set.

Options for Commercialization

This commercialization opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer
Program. The objective of this program is to proactively involve the private
sector in NASA's programs to ensure that the technology developed will have
maximum commercial impact. NASA seeks industry partners to cooperatively
develop commercial products that incorporate the Dataflow Design Tool.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

