 

A System-level Dependability Analysis Tool DEPEND

DEPEND is a simulation-based environment especially geared for the design
and evaluation of mission/life critical systems. Using DEPEND, a designer
can analyze an entire system under various realistic stress conditions to
determine the types of faults to which it is especially vulnerable. The
designer can also study the dynamic interactions between the components in
the system and identify the major impediments to dependability.

Potential Commercial Uses

Any digital system whose reliability is critical.

   * Avionics
   * High speed rail
   * Factory floor
   * Robotics
   * Communications
   * Biomedical instrumentation
   * Power systems
   * Automotive control systems
   * Environmental controls

 

Benefits

   * Object-oriented framework
   * Library of fault-tolerant building blocks
   * Automated fault injection facility
   * Allows analysis of software behavior under the influence of hardware
     faults

The Technology

DEPEND is a computer-aided engineering tool that consists of a graphical
interface, a library of objects, and a simulation engine. Designers can
construct system models by interconnecting objects that represent system
components. These objects can be predefined DEPEND objects, or they can be
user-defined collections of DEPEND objects. Both hardware and software
systems can be defined. By instantiating fault injector objects within each
failable component, dependability analysis can be performed. DEPEND produces
statistics that include: availability, mean time between failures, mean time
between repairs, coverage, fault isolation times, error latencies, repair
times, and the types and locations of faults that occurred.

DEPEND was developed under NASA grant NAG-1-613 by Dr. Kumar Goswami and Dr.
Ravi Iyer at the Illinois Computer Laboratory for Aerospace Systems and
Software (ICLASS), a NASA Center of Excellence. ICLASS is located at the
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign.

Options for Commercialization

NASA seeks industry partners to cooperatively develop a commercial DEPEND
product. This commercial opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer
Program. The objective of this program is to proactively involve the private
sector in NASA's programs to ensure that the technology developed will have
maximum commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

