 

DSMC: When Conventional CFD is Not Enough

The direct simulation Monte Carlo (DSMC) method is a technique for the
computer modeling of a real gas by some thousands to millions of simulated
molecules. The method is used primarily for the modeling of low density
(rarefied) gases for which the Navier-Stokes equations of computational
fluid dynamics (CFD) do not provide a valid model. The computer conducts a
direct physical simulation of the fluid problem, rather than solving the
system of mathematical equations that model the process. DSMC has been used
at the Langley Research Center to study everything from 3-D Shuttle reentry
in the upper atmosphere to the details of the interaction between two shocks
on a scale of a few thousandths of an inch.

 

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Low pressure chemical vapor deposition
   * Micromechanical devices, microchannel flow
   * Chemical vapor infiltration techniques
   * Thin film bearings

Benefits

   * Reduce experimental requirements
   * Runs on inexpensive personal computers
   * More accurate analyses
   * Easy to understand and apply

The Technology

The direct simulation Monte Carlo (DSMC) method allows the computational
modeling of rarefied gases outside (as well as within) the range of validity
of the Navier-Stokes equations of fluid mechanics. The computer follows many
thousands or even millions of representative simulated molecules through
collisions and boundary interactions in simulated physical space. Solutions
for steady and unsteady problems are obtained by averaging over many small
time steps.

A flow is considered rarefied when the typical size dimension of the problem
is comparable to the mean free path (average distance a molecule travels
between collisions) of the molecules in the gas. Thus, DSMC is alternately
applicable to flows at very low pressure or to problems with very small
characteristic dimensions (i.e. Microelectromechanical devices). The method
is also valid for problems of greater density and larger dimensions, but
computational time and costs eventually become prohibitive. Recent
improvements in computer technology have made calculations that were
impossible five years ago routine today. Anticipated improvements in both
hardware and software will continue to extend the range of applicability of
the method.

Considerable expertise in applying DSMC to complex engineering problems
resides at Langley Research Center. Advanced and special purpose DSMC codes
are developed, tested and applied here.

Options for Commercialization

The DS2G two-dimensional or Axially Symmetric DSMC code executable and
user's guide are available without restrictions from the Langley Research
Center. This code runs on an IBM PC or PC clone with a 386 processor or
better and a minimum 8 Meg RAM. The code comes with 9 demonstration cases
which illustrate the range of engineering problems which can be solved using
this technique.

Opportunities exist for obtaining or jointly developing more advanced codes
to meet commercial requirements. This technology opportunity is part of the
NASA Technology Transfer Program. The program seeks to transfer critical
technologies to the private sector to ensure that NASA programs will have
maximum commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

