 

A Software Development Process for the 21st Century

ASTER is a software development environment that supports the next
generation of software development processes. It offers automatic
transformation of engineering specifications into source code and associated
documentation. Application maintenance is done by maintaining the
specification-not the code. This eliminates the duplicated effort of
maintaining (and verifying) separate specifications, source code, and
documentation for the various steps of traditional software development. And
it lets you reuse specifications, not just code.

Potential Commercial Uses

ASTER can be used to develop real-time software components for embedded
systems that implement guidance algorithms, mission planning algorithms or
control systems in these application domains:

   * Avionics/Aerospace
   * Automotive
   * High Speed Rail
   * Robotics
   * Factory Automation
   * Biomedical Instrumentation
   * Consumer Electronics
   * Power Systems
   * Communications
   * Environmental Controls
   * Multimodal Transportation

 
Sample design using ASTER

Benefits

ASTER increases a software development team's capability to produce complex
real-time systems.

   * ASTER enables shared development, minimizing the delays and errors that
     arise from "hand-off" from one team to the next, and increases parallel
     development.
   * ASTER improves a team's overall capability by enabling knowledge
     sharing across the entire team.
   * ASTER increases project management effectiveness by providing
     electronic access to all work products, which permits automatic tools
     to measure progress and collect data.
   * ASTER facilitates reuse of designs, not just code.

The Technology

Over the past ten years researchers at The Charles Stark Draper Laboratory
have been developing a software development environment to address many of
the problems the Defense and Aerospace industries have encountered when
building complex real-time software. Draper staff discovered at that time
what many are now calling "business process re-engineering." With the
support of NASA's Langley Research Center, they found that by automating
much of the software development process, errors could be eliminated and
productivity could be dramatically improved. Later, they discovered the
important advantages of making all work products available from a central
database-another of the central principles of business process
re-engineering.

The ASTER software development environment is implemented using advanced
object-oriented technology. It is extensible, readily maintainable, and
adaptable, having already survived the dynamic environment of desktop
computing during this past decade. It now runs on SPARC based machines of
SUN Microsystems. It is compatible with UNIX and X-Windows, and, with a
reasonable effort, it could be ported to other standard desktop machines.

Options for Commercialization

NASA and Draper Laboratory are seeking an industrial organization to produce
commercial software development environments based on ASTER technology and
concepts. The Northeast Regional Technology Transfer Center (NASA CTC) has
undertaken to place this technology in the hands of suitable licensees.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

