 

Applied Computational Fluid Dynamics

Applied Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD) pertains to the use of various
computational methods for predicting the behavior and effects of fluid
(i.e., liquids and gases) flows on configurations (e.g. airplanes, cars,
boats, buildings) to provide additional insight to the engineer for solving
complex aerodynamic and fluid dynamic problems. Computer models can provide
guidance for properly shaping surfaces which interact with moving fluids,
such as air or water. These models can provide estimates of the loads or
heating characteristics commonly encountered in such problems.

 
High angle-of-attack flow simulation about the F/A-18 aircraft. (solution
obtained by CFL3D code)

 
External/underhood flow simulation for a generic car research model.
(solution obtained by USM3D code)

 
External/internal-propulsion flow simulation. (solution obtained by PAB3D
code)

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Car aerodynamics and design
   * Wind load analysis on buildings/bridges
   * Boat sail and hull design
   * Internal combustion engines
   * Pump design and pipe flow analysis
   * Design of heat exchange
   * Ventilation system analysis and design
   * Parachute load analysis and design
   * Biomechanical devices

Benefits

   * Applicable to a wide variety of fluid flow problems
   * Capability for both internal and external flows analysis
   * Applicable to a wide range of flow speeds and conditions
   * Suitable for simulating the flow of liquids and gases
   * Provide detail information difficult to achieve experimentally
   * Detail analysis can reveal flaws before fabrication

The Technology

Applied CFD is the process of utilizing various technologies such as
configuration surface modeling, flowfield grid generation, flow solver and
solution analysis. These technologies are commonly based on either
structured (quadrilateral-panel/hexahedral-cell) or unstructured
(triangular-panel/tetrahedral-cell) grid elements to represent the surface
geometry and the corresponding computational domain. These technologies and
accompanying expertise are available from NASA for solving a variety of
aerodynamic problems. While the more sophisticated codes generally require
supercomputers, many have been modified to execute on workstations. In
addition to aerospace applications, NASA is committed to explore and promote
the non-aerospace applications of these technologies.

Options for Commercialization

This technology opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer Program.
NASA is seeking industrial partners to develop commercial products from its
software.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

