 

Data Visualization Tools and Techniques

The Data Visualization and Animation Lab at NASA Langley has developed two
software tools to supplement environments which use video cameras and light
sheets to visualize dynamic phenomena. The first tool, ILLUME, is used to
analyze potential camera and light sheet positions well in advance of any
hardware installation. The second tool, MAPPER, uses knowledge of camera
position and scene geometry to project 2-D images into 3-D space.

 
Comparison of light sheet images and CFD

 
Analysis of camera position on an aircraft

Potential Commercial Uses

   * analysis of flow visualization images acquired from experiments on
     models of aircraft, automobiles, submarines, etc.
   * analysis of on-surface flow visualization images produced using tufts,
     oils, paints, or liquid crystals
   * analysis of off-surface flow visualization images produced by rotating
     or translating laser light sheets
   * analysis of optimal camera position and orientation in environments
     such as surveillance areas, filming studios, robotic facilities, and
     tele-operated systems
   * an enhancement to existing scientific visualization software packages

Benefits

   * allows experimental flow visualization images to be displayed within
     the same graphics environments commonly used for computational fluid
     dynamics results
   * allows experimentally acquired images to be viewed relative to objects
     which may otherwise not be visible during the experiment
   * removes the constraint of a single camera point-of-view of a flow
     visualization experiment
   * allows an analysis of possible camera positions and orientations
     without installing physical instrumentation

The Technology

A computer-aided process has been developed at NASA Langley to analyze flow
visualization images acquired from wind tunnel tests and flight experiments.
These images are typically produced by applying a substance such as oil,
paint, or liquid crystals to the surface of the object to be tested. A video
camera then records the changes which occur to the substance as the object
interacts with a flowfield. Characteristics of the fluid surrounding the
object can also be obtained by illuminating the flowfield with a rotating or
translating sheet of light. The two-dimensional (2-D) video images produced
using these techniques provide valuable insight into the behavior of the
flowfield around an object, but a computer-aided process is often required
in order to extract quantitative three-dimensional (3-D) data.

The computer-aided process integrates digital image processing and computer
graphics concepts with a mathematical model for image reconstruction. The
software, known as MAPPER, uses knowledge of camera, light sheet, and object
locations to project 2-D images into 3-D space. A scientific visualization
package is then used to display the reconstructed images from any viewpoint
with respect to a geometric representation of the object under study.
Flowfield features such as vortex core paths can be extracted and displayed
simultaneously. This technique significantly enhances the capability to
compare flight versus wind tunnel data and experimental data versus
computational fluid dynamics solutions.

Proper placement of cameras and/or light sheets is crucial to the success of
flow visualization experiments, and this process has been made simpler
through the development of an additional software tool known as ILLUME. The
Interactive Lightsheet Locator Utility and Modeling Environment allows the
user to test potential camera and light sheet positions graphically to
ensure that all regions of interest are illuminated and made visible to
recording cameras throughout a range of testing conditions. This software
can be utilized well in advance of an actual experiment.

Options for Commercialization

NASA seeks industry partners to use, evaluate, and potentially commercialize
products based upon the ILLUME and MAPPER software. Instructions for
obtaining the code can be accessed from the NASA Langley Software Server:
http://www.larc.nasa.gov/LSS

This commercialization opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer
Program. The objective of this program is to proactively involve the private
sector in NASA's programs to ensure that the technology developed will have
maximum commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

