 

Neural Network Controls Software

A software package for developing neural network controllers has been
developed at NASA Langley Research Center. The package, called NNET, is
based on the backpropagation paradigm and has been structured for, but is
not limited to, the implementation of various control designs. NNET is coded
in ANSI C and runs on a number of different platforms.

 

Potential Commercial Uses

Any application in which control systems are required including:

   * Chemical processing plants
   * Magnetic suspension systems
   * Flight Control Systems
   * Robotic Control

Benefits

   * Inexpensive, quick-start package for neural control system development
     and evaluation.
   * The neural generalized predictive controller is built into the code.
   * ANCI C source code is provided for tailoring and flexibility.
   * Real-time data collection feature.

The Technology

The NNET package is a development platform for creating neural network
controllers. NNET is based on the backpropagation paradigm and has been
structured for the implementation of various control designs. NNET is
composed of four elements; the network structure, the input map, data
control blocks, and generic devices. The network structure includes any
feature that defines the architecture of the neural network such as the
number of layers and the number of nodes in a layer. The input map defines
the type of network inputs such as external inputs or delay nodes. Data
control blocks define the wiring between the neural network , the generic
devices, and the users plant. Generic devices include signal generators,
discrete filters, and display devices. The signal generator outputs a user
defined wave-form. Generated signals can be passed through a discrete
filters set with user-specified parameters. Display devices are set to
display selected variables within the control block. The neural network
architecture features supported in NNET include time delay nodes,
recurrency, plant feed back, user programmable activation functions, and
selective update of neural network weights. The control architectures
featured are direct neural network control, indirect neural network control,
and neural generalized predictive control, as well as user programmable
control architectures. The flexibility of the code and the fact that the
source code is available for tailoring, lends itself to the development of
real time control systems. NNET has been used by the US Army to analyze
helicopter control, and here at Langley to analyze wind tunnel data. The
package has been delivered to NASA Ames for flight control systems, and to
the USDA for analyzing market trends for meat pricing. NNET has also been
used for a Shuttle tile identification and inspection task. Specific
features of NNET include:

   * Network initialization using user-defined linearized plant
   * Support of off/on train for specific weights
   * Contains hooks for real-time implementation
   * Both menu driven and script driven interfaces available
   * Generic devices: signal generator, discrete filters, and display
     devices
   * Available on a number of different platforms

Options for Commercialization

This technology opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer Program.
The program seeks to stimulate development of commercial applications from
NASA-developed technology. A software package for developing neural network
controllers has been developed and applied to a variety commercial
applications. Suitability of this technology to specific needs can be
investigated at Langley.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

