 

Thermally Perfect Gas Computer Code

The Thermally Perfect Gas (TPG) computer code was developed as a stand-alone
analysis tool for one-dimensional gas dynamics. The TPG code is capable of
handling any type of gas (monatomic, diatomic, triatomic, or polyatomic) or
any mixture of such gases. It produces tabulated results of the gas
expansion and normal shock properties for any specified Mach number or range
of Mach numbers. The code requires only simple responses to an interactive
program and typically takes only a minute or less of user time to obtain
results. It is accessible in either a FORTRAN version with input prompt
statements or a graphical- user-interface version with menu selection. The
TPG code is available free through Internet on the World Wide Web at the
NASA Langley Software Server (at URL: http://www.larc.nasa.gov/LSS).

 

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Any engineering code that uses NACA Report 1135 analysis methods for a
     perfect gas
   * A stand-alone analysis tool for one-dimensional gas dynamics
   * Situations which require knowledge of the specific heat for any mixture
     of gases
   * As a teaching tool for university professors of engineering and/or
     physics

Benefits

   * Applicable to any type of gas or mixture of gases
   * Greater accuracy and precision than NACA Report 1135
   * Fast, easy-to-use computer program
   * User-specified tabulated results provided
   * Free, available through Internet

The Technology

The TPG code utilizes a polynomial curve fit of the specific heat at
constant pressure, cp , versus temperature for a given gas to describe the
variation of the gas heat capacity. The data required to generate such curve
fits can be found in tabulated form in several published sources, such as
the NBS "Tables of Thermal Properties of Gases" and the "JANAF
Thermochemical Tables." Actual coefficients for specific types of polynomial
curve fits are also published in NASP TM-1107 and NASA SP-3001. The code has
default coefficient values for the standard 4-species composition of air (N
2 , O 2 , Ar, CO 2 ), and includes separate species data files containing
the curve fit coefficients for many other common gases (H 2 , H 2 O, NO, OH,
...). Typically, engineering textbooks contain derivations of the
compressible flow relations only for a calorically perfect (constant cp )
gas. The equations have been rederived for this method with cp as a
polynomial function of temperature to obtain a set of compressible flow
relations for a thermally perfect (cp varies with temperature) gas and have
been incorporated into the two versions of the TPG code. The equations for
arbitrary mixtures of gases are evaluated by computing an equivalent mixture
molecular weight, gas constant, and cp. The development and results of this
method are documented in NASA TP 3447,Computer Code for Determination of
Thermally Perfect Gas Properties. A paper copy of this report is available
for a nominal cost from the National Technical Information Service (NTIS).
An electronic version of the report is available free through Internet on
the World Wide Web at the NASA Langley Technical Report Server (URL:
http://techreports.larc.nasa.gov/ltrs/ltrs.html).

 

Options for Commercialization

The technology opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer Program.
The program seeks to stimulate development of commercial applications from
NASA-developed technology. The Langley Research Center seeks to transfer the
TPG code to the research and applied engineering community for use as a
stand-alone analysis tool or for incorporation into engineering codes to
provide gas dynamic analyses.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

