 

Active Control Of Noise

Is Noise An Annoyance? Becoming annoyed by the irritating sounds your home
appliances are constantly making? Is the equipment in your office or
workplace producing unbearable noise? These annoyances may no longer disturb
your work and pleasure time thanks to active noise control technology
developed by researchers at NASA Langley Research Center. Once
commercialized, this technology holds the promise to significantly reduce
excessive low frequency noise in aircraft and in many other applications in
everyday life.

 
Present commercial application of active noise control use loudspeakers in
aircraft cabins to reduce noise.

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Noise control in general aviation aircraft
   * Noise control in automotive applications
   * Noise/vibration control in trains and ships
   * Noise control in portable factory offices
   * Vibration sensitive instrumentation
   * Reduction of fatigue failures in high vibration environments
   * Reduction of factory noise
   * Reduced vibration from hand operated machinery
   * Control of office equipment noise
   * Reduction of noise from home appliances

 
A large scale fuselage model in Acoustic Research Laboratory anechoic
chamber for evaluation of piezoceramic actuators in noise reduction
experiment.

Benefits

   * Effective for low frequency noise/vibration
   * Can be compact and lightweight
   * Can be integrated with passive treatment
   * Target particular frequencies and/or modes

The Technology

The noise and vibration experienced by aircraft (or automobile) passengers
is a critical element to customer acceptance. Evidence of this is the use of
quiet interiors as an advertising element by automobile companies. In
aircraft, efficient acoustic treatments are particularly important in order
to save weight. Recent work has demonstrated that active control concepts
can be very effective at low frequencies where conventional passive
treatments give poor performance. By employing acoustic sources in the cabin
or force actuators on a vibrating structure, the noise exposure of the
passenger and crew may be dramatically reduced. Control of noise propagation
in ducts, radiation from vibrating panels and noise from aerodynamic sources
have all been demonstrated. Active vibration mounts and active control of
vibrational power flow in frame like structures have also been demonstrated.

Another aspect to NASA's current technology development is the use of
computer modeling for design optimization. Dividends are now being paid due
to NASA support over the past 20 years of research towards developing finite
element and boundary element prediction codes. Commercial computer programs
are now available that may be used as design tools to optimize passive and
active noise control treatments.

Options for Commercialization

This technology opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer Program.
A patent on control of vibration in framework structures has been granted
and is available for license. Other patent applications are under
consideration.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

