 

Doppler Global Velocimetry

A new laser velocimetry technology, based on the use of atomic absorption
lines in Iodine and Cesium as optical frequency discriminators, is being
developed. This technology provides a direct measure of the Doppler shift
frequency imposed on laser light scattered from moving particles or other
objects. Three-component velocity measurements have been made using point
and planar configurations.

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Flow Field Diagnostics:
          turbulence power spectra, spatial cross correlations and mean
          velocity and standard deviation images

   * Industrial Monitoring:
          motion of stock in steel mills, canneries, etc., fluids in
          pipelines, petrochemical processes, slurries

   * Two-Phase Flows:
          Fuel injector and sprayer design, steam flow monitoring

   * Combustion Flows:
          Internal combustion and jet engine flow diagnostics, burner design

   * Rotating Machinery:
          Computer disk drive testing, turbo and compressor design

Benefits

   * Expanded capabilities:
          focal distances exceeding 20 meters (planar), 450 meters (point,
          Velocity range - subsonic to hypersonic without particle lag,
          Continuous output (point); Point measurement volumes less than 20
          microns in diameter

   * Key features:
          Global optical system only slightly more complicated than standard
          laser light sheet visualization systems; Can use CW lasers for
          versatile measurement location and size, and pulsed lasers for
          instantaneous measurements; Resolution of individual seeding
          particles not required

The Technology

The edge of an atomic absorption line is used to measure changes in the
optical frequency in much the same way as a frequency discriminator obtains
music from a carrier wave in FM radios. The amount of frequency shift is
directly proportional to the velocity of the object scattering the
illuminating laser light.

Researchers at the Northrop Electronics Division of Hawthorn, California,
and ThermoTrex of San Diego, California invented the global and point
measurement systems respectively. Researchers at NASA Langley Research
Center have advanced this technology into practical fluid diagnostics
measurement systems.

Options for Commercialization

NASA, and the patent holders Northrop, U.S. patent 4,919,536 and ThermoTrex,
U.S. patent 5,267,010, seek industry partners to cooperatively develop
commercial products based on the Doppler Global Velocimetry technology. This
revolutionary technology is available for licensing.

This commercialization opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer
Program. The objective of this program is to proactively involve the private
sector in NASA's programs to ensure that the technology developed will have
maximium commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

