 

HIPPI to Multiple SCSI II Drive Interface

Most instruments communicate to other instruments by using some type of
standard interface. Hard drives and other peripheral share often connected
to a host computer using the Small Computer System Interface (SCSI). Larger,
faster computers often have to transfer much more data than personal
computers, therefore, they often use a high performance, parallel interface
(HIPPI) to communicate to external devices. The electronic chip described in
this exhibit performs the control required to allow a device that has a
HIPPI interface to communicate to multiple devices that have SCSI II
interfaces.

Potential Commercial Uses

The HIPPI to SCSI II Drive Interface allows:

   * HIPPI protocol to SCSI II protocol conversion
   * Data rate conversion between high and low speed devices
   * Host communication to multiple devices simultaneously
   * Real time device selection and switching
   * RAID (Redundant Arrays of Inexpensive Disks) implementations

Benefits

   * Smaller size: one chip contains 12,000 equivalent gates
   * Less weight: one chip is functional equivalent of two fully populated
     circuit boards
   * Less power consumption: 0.25 watts

 
HIPPI to SCSI II drive interface

 
ASIC functional organization

The Technology

The electronic chip is called an ASIC (Application Specific Integrated
Circuit). An ASIC performs the same functions as several discrete
components, thus it provides a cost-effective means to reduce size, weight
and power consumption of electronic circuits. The ASIC on display contains
the equivalent of 12,000 gates of digital logic. It is housed in a ceramic
144 pin grid array and is based on CMOS 1.0 micron technology. It operates
at up to 50 MHz and consumes 0.25 watts of power.

Options for Commercialization

NASA seeks industry partners to cooperatively develop commercial products
based on the HIPPI to SCSI II Drive Interface. This commercialization
opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer Program. The objective
of this program is to proactively involve the private sector in NASA's
programs to ensure that the technology developed will have maximum
commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

