 

Global Flow-Field Velocity Mapping Using Particle Image Velocimetry (PIV)

An optical imaging technique combined with digital image analysis to measure
the fluid flow field in a plane. The result of this global technique is an
instantaneous snapshot of the flow field at a fixed time. After a collection
of 'snapshots' are taken, a turbulent flow may be monitored, analyzed, and
possibly controlled.

Potential Commercial Uses

Type of flows:

   * Turbulent and laminar flows
   * Velocity regime - subsonic to supersonic
   * Liquid and gaseous flows
   * External flows:
        o Flow over structures or obstacles
        o Wakes, jets, and boundary layers
        o Separated or reversed flows
   * Internal flows
        o Flow through ducts
        o Turbine flows
        o Flow in piston-driven engines
        o Underhood flow around an engine block
   * Single-phase and multiple-phase flows
   * Code Validation:
        o Extensive measurement of turbulence statistics to validate
          turbulence models

 
Generic car model

Benefits

   * Global measurement technique
   * Measurement of mean field and turbulence statistics
   * Measurement of turbulence structures
   * Measurement of vorticity field
   * Accuracy and spatial resolution approaching Laser Doppler Velocimetry
     technique
   * Significantly reduced testing time
   * Quantitative flow visualization

 
Underhood flow field

The Technology

Particle Image Velocimetry is an optical technique designed to acquire
instantaneous, planar snapshots of the velocity field at regular grid points
in space. Thus PIV captures the crucial spatial qualities of the flow of
interest. With an ensemble of randomly sampled velocity fields, PIV provides
the estimated mean flow, various flow statistics, vorticity, and the means
to identify and categorize flow structures. This technique is particularly
well-suited for turbulence research where basic understanding of organized
structures may lead to the design of more efficient airfoils, aircraft,
automobiles, engines, turbines, or turbulent mixing processes.

Researchers at Langley are currently applying PIV to study various types of
turbulent flows. Standard PIV measures the two components of velocity in the
plane of interest. Three component velocity measurements in a plane is
possible with the development of Stereoscopic PIV (SPIV), and work is
currently ongoing in this field.

Researchers at Langley are looking to integrate PIV capability with industry
needs in the field of flow testing and diagnostics. Partnerships may be
formed to investigate any number of internal and external flows encountered
in industrial applications. Transfer of PIV technology is also a goal, and
dissemination of PIV development information includes, but not limited to:

   * Optical system design and setup
   * Computer interrogation system setup
   * Flow field data processing software

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

