 

Advanced Multi-Wavelength Solid-State Lasers and Laser Material

Frequency agile, solid-state lasers and non-linear devices have been
developed for remote sensing, spectroscopy, velocimetry and medicine. The
simplicity, reliability, and compactness of diode pumped solid-state lasers
make them a very attractive tool for future space based Differential
Absorption Lidar (DIAL) and backscatter lidar missions. These missions
propose to measure ozone, greenhouse gasses including water vapor, aerosols,
winds, and clouds. These measurements are pertinent to NASA's Mission to
Planet Earth (MTPE) Program which is chartered to globally monitor the
earth's atmosphere, and the general conditions of the earth's lands and
oceans.

 
The optical layout of the LASE titanium-doped sapphire tunable laser system

 

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Chemical sensing
   * Illumination
   * Surgical tools
   * Dermatology
   * Ophthalmology
   * Dentistry
   * Probes

Benefits

   * Frequency agile
   * Simplicity in design
   * Compact
   * Reliability

The Technology

NASA Langley Research Center has a strong presence in remote sensing
measurements of atmospheric constituents from both airborne and spaceborne
platforms. Two recent NASA Langley laser missions were the LITE (Lidar
In-Space Technology Experiment) and the LASE (Lidar Atmospheric Sensing
Experiment).

LITE was deployed on the shuttle's STS-64 mission to measure aerosols and
clouds. LITE used a flashlamp pumped neodymium yttrium aluminum garnet
(Nd:YAG) laser. The Nd:YAG fundamental laser energy at a wavelength of 1.06
micrometer, its second and third harmonics at 0.53 and 0.35 micrometer,
respectively, were directed to the earth's atmosphere. The backscattered
light from these wavelengths was detected by a telescope receiver with the
data downlinked to computer data systems. The data was subsequently analyzed
to determine the altitude resolved densities and profiles of clouds and
aerosols.

LASE was flown on an ER-2 aircraft, NASA's version of the military U-2, at
altitudes from 65- 70 K ft. LASE made use of a tunable, from 0.66 to 1.1
micrometer titanium sapphire laser to measure H2O vapor profiles of the
atmosphere.

Options for Commercialization

NASA Langley seeks industry partners to cooperatively develop commercial
products based on Multi-Wavelength Solid-State Laser technology.

This commercial opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer Program.
The objective of this program is to proactively involve the private sector
in NASA's programs to ensure that the technology developed will have maximum
commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

