 

Product Design-Life Estimation

An automated computerized tool system to estimate product design-life has
been developed by a consortium comprised of industry, university, and
government. The HiRel (hybrid automated reliability predictor, HARP,
integrated reliability) tool system for reliability/ availability estimation
offers a toolbox of integrated programs that can be used with HiRel's
graphics user interface to customize the user's application in a workstation
or non-workstation environment.

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Automotive systems
        o Engine controllers, ABS, powertrain systems
   * Aircraft/spacecraft/submarine systems
        o Flight/attitude/engine control systems
   * Military avionics
   * Railroad switching systems
   * Telecommunications
   * Chemical processing control/monitoring systems
   * Nuclear power control systems
   * Computer systems

Benefits

   * Versatile, powerful, easy-to-use tool system with graphical user
     interface
   * Runs on most popular computers including the IBM compatible
   * Mature, well documented product
   * Beta tested in field for over 9 years
   * Independently evaluated within NASA

 
HiRel component programs

The Technology

HiRel is an engineering tool that was designed and implemented to be
applicable to a wide variety of systems that require
reliability/availability assessment. The most powerful and practical
mathematical techniques were employed in HiRel while still retaining
modeling techniques familiar to the industry.

The user has the option of modeling a system with the popular fault tree
notation or with the more detailed Markov modeling technique. The fault tree
capability in HiRel incorporates four unique dynamic gates that give the
HiRel fault tree capability the full power of the Markov technique. HiRel
offers two solution engines, an analytical method and a Monte Carlo
simulation. The Monte Carlo method also does non-Markovian modeling to
include cold or warm spares for systems with decreasing failure rates, an
important consideration for spacecraft systems.

Another important feature is HiRel's ability to model ultrahigh reliability
systems. These are systems that are designed to probabilities of system
failure on the order of less than 1 part in 100,000,000. Seven
fault-handling models are available to model fault coverage and other
pertinent data. An efficient mathematical modeling technique called
behavioral decomposition utilizes the disparity of the widely separated time
constants in such models to greatly simplify the modeling of fault-handling
and its solution.

Options for Commercialization

NASA seeks industry partners to cooperatively develop and commercialize
HiRel. Over 120 institutions in industry, university, and government have
participated in the beta testing of HiRel over a nine-year period. The beta
site users made many important contributions during HiRel's development, but
many enhancements were not implemented because of our limited resources.
Although HiRel is presently a powerful and useful capability, many
improvements that have been identified would further enhance its acceptance.

This commercialization opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer
Program. The objective of this program is to proactively involve the private
sector in NASA's programs to ensure that the technology developed will have
maximum commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

