 

High Temperature Strain Gage Accuracy & Reliability To 1500 Degrees F

A high temperature strain gage concept that utilizes one "active" gage
element and one "compensating" gage element to null undesirable, thermally
generated outputs has been developed. This gage has had service application
where it achieved a 97 percent success rate at test temperatures up to 1500
degrees F. The gage provided an order of magnitude reduction in the unwanted
spurious signals typically seen when using high temperature strain gages.

 
Strain Data with Langley gage at 1200 deg. F

 
Metal matrix composite "Heavy loads" joint panel

 
Close up view of installed gage

 
Gage installed -- ready for thermal blanket

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Automotive engine testing at high temperatures
   * Automotive exhaust system testing
   * Aircraft engine static testing at high temperatures
   * High-temperature testing for nuclear industry
   * Mechanical properties testing of high temperature composites
   * Aerospace thermal structures testing

Benefits

   * Data accuracy: This gage reduces "apparent strain" by an order of
     magnitude, thus greatly improving data accuracy
   * Reliability: This gage has posted a 97 percent success rate in high
     temperature tests performed throughout the United States
   * Key Features:
        o Gage design enables use on almost any high temperature material
        o Half-bridge configuration does not require special data system
        o Lead-wire effects are negligible
        o Gage is adaptable to a wide variety of test environments (gage is
          available with wire or foil elements)
        o Gage can be installed using ceramic cements or flame-spray guns

The Technology

A high temperature strain gage concept has been developed that utilizes a
half-bridge approach incorporating an active gage in conjunction with a
compensating gage to greatly reduce the undesirable effects of apparent
strain on the strain measurement. These two gage elements are wired to form
adjacent arms of a Wheatstone bridge circuit. Thus, when both gates are
subjected to temperature excursions, the circuit remains nulled. At the same
time, when the substrate is mechanically strained, only the active gage
responds.

In practice, the gage elements are placed on an electrical insulating
basecoat which is bonded to the surface where strain is to be measured. The
active gage is then bonded to the basecoat while the compensating element is
only tack-bonded such that it cannot respond to mechanical strains. Since
both gage elements are positioned on the same thermal conductor, both should
change temperature at the same rate during thermal excursions. When
measuring strain on materials that have a thermal expansion coefficient
which differs from the active gage element, a length of platinum wire is
added to the appropriate gage element to minimize the resultant apparent
strain.

Options for Commercialization

Advanced Hi-Temp Strain Sensors of San Diego, CA has a partially exclusive
license for manufacturing the gage from BCL alloys. JP Technologies, Inc. of
Upland, CA has a partially exclusive license for manufacturing the gage from
Kanthol alloys. Each company has a non-exclusive license for manufacturing
the gage from other materials (except the other company's alloy). Users are
encouraged to contact these companies directly regarding sales or
sublicenses.

This commercialization opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer
Program. The objective of this program is to proactively involve the private
sector in NASA's programs to ensure that the technology developed will have
maximum commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

