 

Optical Measurement System with Parallel Processing for Tracking
Applications

The Optical Measurement System (OMS) has been developed to meet the growing
need for high accuracy, real-time position measurement in the next
generation of aerospace facilities. The first application of OMS is the
Advanced Controls Test Facility Large Gap Magnetic Suspension System
(LGMSS). In the LGMSS, a cylindrical element containing a permanent magnet
core is levitated above a planar array of electromagnets. Position and
attitude information is fed from the OMS to the LGMSS control to stabilize
levitation of the cylindrical element.

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Motion analysis for sports or medical applications
   * Precision position measurement in manufacturing or testing
   * Position measurement for control of a rigid body
   * Surface contour measurement
   * Machine vision for robotics applications

Benefits

   * High speed target tracking
   * Simple computer architecture
   * Measures 6 degrees of freedom

The Technology

The OMS consists of 16 linear charge-coupled device (CCD) cameras arranged
in pairs. Each pair, or sensing unit, has an x camera and a y camera
oriented at right angles. Small infrared light-emitting diode (LED) targets
are embedded in the surface of the rigid body whose position and attitude
are to be determined. When the LED targets flash on, images of the targets
are acquired by the cameras in parallel. A high speed analog-to-digital
converter is used in each camera to digitize the analog video image.
Digitized images are stored in random access memory located on a digital
signal processor (DSP) board. There is one DSP per camera. Locations of the
target images along the CCD array are calculated by the camera DSP. Using
the camera locations of the target images, the location of the target with
respect to an external reference frame is determined. Eight target images
are acquired in sequence, the locations of the targets are determined and
used to calculate the position and attitude of the rigid body. The position
and attitude of the rigid body are updated 40 times per second.

Options for Commercialization

NASA seeks industry licensees for commercialization of this multi-sensor
multi-processor architecture for distributed parallel computing.

This commercialization opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer
Program. The objective of this program is to proactively involve the private
sector in NASA's programs to ensure that the technology developed will have
maximum commercial impact.

 

 
See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

