 

CCD-Based Mosaic Digital Mammography

A novel scheme for implementing electronic, all-digital x-ray breast imaging
has been proposed and the basic technique demonstrated. By using advanced
Charged-Coupled Device (CCD) imaging technology, superior dynamic range and
sensitivity relative to film-based systems is achieved. Additionally, the
technique described here has superior spatial resolution to competing
digital mammography methods as well as a novel scatter-rejection method.

 
Schematic of CCD-Mosaic concept

 
Reconstructed image; NIST pattern rotated at 45 degrees

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Electronic breast x-ray acquisition
   * Other (e.g. chest) x-ray imaging systems

Benefits

   * Dynamic range and sensitivity far superior to film
   * Better spatial resolution compared to all other digital mammography
     techniques
   * Ease of image archival, retrieval, and transmission
   * Novel scatter-rejection technique

The Technology

Digital mammography techniques have long been sought because of the superior
imaging properties inherent in electronic image sensors, such as CCDs,
relative to film. These advantages include better sensitivity,
signal-to-noise ratios, and linearity over many orders of magnitude.
Additionally, digital data storage allows for automated image analysis
software to help doctors locate tumors as well as ease of image storage and
retrieval. Finally, digitally stored images may be transmitted to a remote
location for interpretation by other experts in the case of difficult to
interpret results. The main obstacle in implementing such systems has been
the lack of an imager suitable for the large format (18cm x 24cm) required
for full breast imaging.

Investigators at NASA Langley Research Center in cooperation with both the
University of Virginia School of Medicine and the University of
Massachusetts School of Medicine have tested a concept that addresses these
needs and makes all-digital full breast imaging possible. Test results
clearly show the feasibility of this concept and demonstrate all the
critical technology elements. Additionally, a novel scatter-rejection scheme
is employed to further enhance the system performance.

Options for Commercialization

NASA seeks industry partners to develop a clinical system based on this
concept. However, no licenses have been granted and no formal arrangements
between NASA and any industry partner currently exist.

This commercialization opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer
Program. The objective of this program is to proactively involve the private
sector in NASA's programs to ensure that the technology developed will have
the maximum commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

