 

Integrated Methods in Systems and Control

As the level of technology increases it becomes more and more difficult to
advance the practical state of the art by considering only the
accomplishments in a single field. Efforts are currently being made to
integrate material from several fields in two projects. One project combines
control theory and digital system theory to study the interplay between the
plant and fault tolerant controllers using redundancy and reconfiguration.
Another blends discrete mathematics and statistics to provide methods for
establishing ultra high reliability by fault-injection experiments.

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Design of control algorithms and digital control systems for
     performance and fault tolerance in harsh environments.
   * Experimental validation of the reliability models for fault tolerant
     systems

 
System Perturbation

Benefits

   * Improve the performance and increase the robustness of digital control
     systems
   * Provide a quantitative method of demonstrating high reliability for
     fault- tolerant real-time systems

 
Redundant Reconfigurable Systems

The Technology

Previous work in the design and analysis of redundant digital control
systems assumed independent failures of single components, and it assumed
the controller had always to be in control. In operation, however, these
systems experience massive transient failures, network down-time, and missed
deadlines. Previous work in design and analysis either ignored these
problems or declared system failure upon their occurrence. Recent work
examines the possibility that system inertia may give the system some
tolerance to a control system that is temporarily faulty. If the control
computers recover from the upsets quickly enough, then the performance of
the system may remain acceptable. Current theoretical efforts attempt to
give precise meaning to the ideas of quick-recovery and
acceptable-performance. An obstacle in establishing ultra high reliability
by experiment is that if the experiment is conducted in the usual manner
then an enormous number of trials are needed to establish a low probability
of failure at a high confidence level. An approach, that combines discrete
mathematics and statistics, has been developed to overcome this obstacle. It
takes advantage of two characteristics for systems that achieve reliability
by redundancy and reconfiguration-- these systems have a small failure rate
compared to the operating time, and they quickly remove a faulty component
from the system. The approach begins by computing the number of trials
needed for a natural-life experiment where a trial corresponds to an
operating period of the system. Since the failure rate is small, a
mathematical analysis shows only a few of these trials will have a component
failure. Only these trials need to be examined by statistical fault
injection. The rest of the trials, which contain no fault occurrences, are
handled by an argument from design (discrete mathematics) that the system
operates correctly if it is fault-free.

Options for Commercialization

This Technological Opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer
Program. The program seeks to stimulate development of commercial
applications from NASA-developed technologies. The Langley Research Center
is seeking partners for the initial development of these research
activities.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

