 

Assessment of Electromagnetic Interference on Digital Control Computers

An assessment process is under development at NASA Langley Research Center
for determining the effects of electromagnetic interference (EMI) on digital
control computers. The EMI assessment process includes upset detection and
performance monitoring for closed-loop dynamic testing, and electromagnetic
field modeling. A laboratory facility at NASA Langley is used for performing
EMI upset tests.

Potential Commercial Uses

EMI Upset Assessment of:

   * Multi-processor Computers
   * Fault Tolerant Control Computers For Critical Applications
   * Control Computers For Automotive Applications
   * Control Computers For Passenger Transportation Vehicles (Trains, Buses,
     Etc.)
   * Control Computers For Medical Applications
   * Processor-based Implantable Medical Devices
   * Control Computers For Nuclear Power Plants

 
Quad-redundant controller on loan from Allied Signal Bendix under Space Act
Agreement Executes b737 Autoland during closed-loop tests

 
The controller under test is exposed to EMI in the test chamber

 
The laboratory facility consists of 3 reverberation chambers of various
sizes, a control room, and a high-power amplifier room

Benefits

   * EMI testing using closed-loop dynamics versus static open-loop testing
   * EMI testing over the entire operating regime of a system rather than
     static operating points
   * Dynamic upset detection based on system- level performance requirements
   * Modeling techniques for electromagnetic field mapping can be used in
     place of expensive testing
   * The Langley test facility enables higher power fields from lower power
     signal sources.

 
Electromagnetic field modeling is used for field mapping inside the test
chambers

The Technology

Control computers are typically assessed for electromagnetic interference
(EMI) through open-loop testing at static operating points. Thus, the
dynamic closed-loop performance of the controller over the entire operating
regime is not assessed for EMI susceptibility during these tests.

The EMI assessment process being developed at NASA Langley Research Center
enables dynamic closed-loop testing over the entire operating regime of the
system. The assessment process can be applied to fault tolerant control
computers with multiple processors, and is illustrated below for a flight
control computer. The figure shows a fault tolerant controller with N
processors contained inside the EMI test chamber. The controller is
interfaced to a simulation of an aircraft. During testing, closed-loop
dynamics are simulated over the flight envelope of interest. Electrical
isolation of electromagnetic disturbances inside the EMI test chamber is
achieved using fiber optics. Broken lines in the figure indicate fiber optic
signaling. Outputs from the simulation of the aircraft are input to the
control law calculation malfunction (CLCM) detector, as well as to each
processor in the fault tolerant controller. Command calculations output from
the controller are input into both the aircraft simulation and CLCM
detector. The CLCM detector determines whether or not upset has occurred.
The upset decision from the CLCM detector can be used to signal an upset
alarm, to trigger the storage of upset data, or to initiate an upset
recovery process.

Options for Commercialization

This technology development opportunity is part of the NASA Technology
Transfer Program. The objective of this program is to actively involve the
private sector in NASA's programs to ensure that the technology developed
will have maximum commercial impact. The assessment process for
electromagnetic interference on control computers is under development at
NASA Langley Research Center. Suitability of this technology to specific
needs can be investigated at Langley.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

