 

Microscopic Subsurface Flaw Characterization System (Scanning Electron
Acoustic Microscopy - SEAM)

A modification to the conventional scanning electron microscope (SEM) has
been developed. The modified microscope is called the scanning electron
acoustic microscope (SEAM). Unlike the SEM, which restricts examination to
specimen surfaces, SEAM permits examination of subsurface flaws, defects,
and residual stress fields.

 
SEM

 SEAM (f = 305.43 kHz)

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Materials Process Monitoring: metals, ceramics, semiconductors, crystal
     growth
   * Fabrication Technology: microcircuits, advanced composites, electronic
     components
   * Components Manufacturing: ball bearings, optical components, machine
     components

Benefits

   * Nondestructive assessment of subsurface flaws
   * Displays residual stress field of material
   * Adaptable to irregular shapes of test object
   * Add-on to existing scanning electron microscope

The Technology

The modulation (or chopping) of an electron beam striking a specimen surface
generates acoustic waves in the specimen. The strength of the acoustic waves
depends upon the thermal and mechanical properties of a volume of specimen
beneath the point on the surface at which the electron beam strikes. The
acoustic waves propagate through the specimen and are detected by a
transducer attached to the specimen. As the modulated electron beam scans
the specimen surface, an image of the subsurface flaws and residual stresses
"seen" by the acoustic waves is generated.

Researchers at Cambridge University in England and NASA Langley Research
Center have developed physically-based models for assessing the generated
images. The predictions of the models have been confirmed in experimental
tests.

Options for Commercialization

NASA seeks industry partners to cooperatively develop commercial products
based in SEAM technology. This commercialization opportunity is part of the
NASA Technology Transfer Program. The objective of this program is to
proactively involve the private sector in NASA's programs to ensure that the
technology developed will have maximum commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

