 

Atomic Mass Spectroscopy Over Long Distances

 
Lunar Rover Atomic Mass Analyzer

Atomic mass spectroscopy is an important analytical technique for industry.
The determination of elemental composition of materials leads to a better
understanding of their origin and characteristics, leading to more advanced
materials for special requirements. While atomic mass spectroscopy has been
used for many years, the technology described herein focuses on performing
mass spectroscopy over long distances. Such technology is of interest to
NASA for the remote determination of the chemical composition of lunar and
asteroid surfaces from lunar rovers or satellites.

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Analysis of dangerous, radioactive, or  corrosive material from a
     distance
   * Analysis of deep wells (oil, natural gas, etc.)
   * Remotely determine contents of leaking toxic waste storage containers

Benefits

   * High spectral resolution mass spectroscopy
   * Analysis of difficult to reach targets or targets that are not
     physically close to one another
   * Isotopes can be easily measured

The Technology

A laser pulse, having sufficient energy, focused on a distant target
material can be used to vaporize a small portion of the target material. The
laser pulse produces a plasma from the material surface. The energy of the
plasma can be quite high, causing high energy ions to escape. These high
energy atomic ions characterize the material in the target object. The ions
released from the material are unique (like a fingerprint) and can be used
for identification purposes. Some of these ions, in a vacuum environment,
will fly in the direction of the remote mass detector.

In the case of the present experiment, the target to detector distance was
16 meters. Two mass resolution technologies were evaluated for separating
ions of different masses at the detector. The first technique is called
ion-trap mass spectrometry and the second is called reflection mass
spectrometry. The advantage of the reflection technique is that it can
analyze higher energy ions (100-500 eV) coming from the target plasma.

This technology can provide a complete mass spectrum of any target material
over very long distances, using a single laser pulse.

 
Reflectron Atomic Mass Analysis Results for a Lunar Simulant. The box
contains the manufacturers measured atomic concentrations

Options for Commercialization

NASA seeks industry partners to cooperatively develop commercial
applications based on the Remote Atomic Mass Spectroscopy technology. This
commercialization opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer
Program. The objective of this program is to proactively involve the private
sector in NASA's programs to ensure that the technology developed will have
maximum commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

