 

Crew Response Evaluation Window (CREW)

An interactive, integrated display tool for analyzing human physiological
and behavioral responses

A new interface design has been developed that can show and record where a
person is looking, what they are interacting with, and how they are being
affected. All this information is shown on a single screen and recorded onto
videotape for later review.

 

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Product usability testing labs
        o CREW can illustrate how actual users respond to/interact with a
          new product (in the real world or a test environment)
   * System operator training
        o CREW can assess operators' developing skill at managing stress and
          keeping alert
   * Audience response testing for advertising and media programming rating
        o CREW can provide impact feedback to advertising agencies
   * Sports assessment and training
        o CREW can monitor an athlete's training progress from several
          perspectives
   * Educational and psychological evaluations
        o CREW can capture an individual's behavior in learning and
          therapeutic environments

Benefits

   * Applicability
        o The biocybernetic technology embodied in CREW for measuring
          attention can assist in the manned system design process
   * On-line monitoring capability
        o Observe human responses and supervise experiment progress in real
          time
   * Off-line playback capability
        o Review and analyze videotape recordings of the CREW display using
          standard video data analysis tools
   * Customizability
        o Display any combination of human physiological signals and various
          views of the test setting in CREW

The Technology

Several methods of measuring human responses are combined into a single
integrated display window using virtual instrument programming. The
individual response technologies include video, eye lookpoint measurement,
physiological stress monitoring, and brainwave signal processing. The
physiological responses include heart rate, skin conductance and temperature
(blood flow) measures. The brainwave measure employed in CREW was developed
in the NASA Langley Human Engineering Methods Laboratory. The fully
functional prototype of CREW is implemented on a Macintosh with
physiological, video and oculometry peripherals. It displays and records
physiological and behavioral data from piloted experiments conducted in
flight simulators.

Options for Commercialization

Invention Disclosure submitted. NASA seeks industry partners to
cooperatively develop commercial products based on the CREW technology. This
commercialization opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer
Program. The objective of this program is to proactively involve the private
sector in NASA's programs to ensure that the technology developed will have
maximum commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

