 

Distributed Mass Storage System with Network Attached Peripherals

There is a trend in institutions with high performance computing and data
management requirements to explore mass storage systems with peripherals
directly attached to a high speed network. The Distributed Mass Storage
System (DMSS) Project at the NASA Langley Research Center has placed such a
system into production use. The system consists of an IBM RS6000
workstation, an IBM 9570 disk array, an STK robotic tape library, a High
Performance Parallel Interface (HIPPI) network, and NSL/UniTree storage
management software. Although the system consists of many off the shelf
components, software was developed in the areas of high speed data transfer
over the HIPPI network, user interfaces, and efficient conversion from one
mass storage system to another. World Wide Web users can learn more about
DMSS activities by visiting the following URL: http://www.larc.nasa.gov/DMSS

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Cost effective high performance data transfer
   * Large scale mass storage and archiving
   * Converting large amounts of data from one system to another

Benefits

   * High performance data transfer from the mass storage system to high
     speed client machines (50 megabytes/sec)
   * User friendly interface to the mass storage system
   * User-transparent conversion of terabytes of information from one system
     to another with minimal outage time

 
Put Image Caption Here

The Technology

HIPPI/IPI3 Third-party Transfer Driver (HITTD) Conventional mass storage
solutions have to route the data through the file server. One has to pay a
premium price to get a machine capable of routing data at a high speed.
Using network attached peripherals in a mass storage system has the effect
of "cutting out the middleman" by routing data directly from the peripheral
to the client. This allows for very high performance for a fraction of the
cost of conventional mass storage systems. LaRC's development of HITTD has
enabled this kind of transfer between the supercomputer and the file server
disks and thus permits the use of an inexpensive workstation class machine
to provide the file server functionality.

Mass Storage System Conversion (MSSC) NASA Langley's development of the MSSC
package has provided an efficient mechanism to transition all of our data
from the previous mass storage system, based on Cray's Data Migration
Facility (DMF), into the DMSS system. It would have taken 6 months to copy
all of the DMF data into DMSS, resulting in long system outages and poor
performance. The MSSC package converted the file information into
NSL/UniTree format but did not copy the data. The data conversion happened
upon a user request for a file. The conversion process was transparent to
the users and only caused a minor outage in service of a couple of days.

NSL-UniTree Enhanced Environment (NEE) The LaRC developed NEE package
consists of a user friendly interface and a set of system management tools
for DMSS. The interface is available on all UNIX platforms. The management
tools provide added functionality to the NSL/UniTree environment including:
statistics gathering, prompt problem diagnosis, and visibility into the
NSL/UniTree databases.

Options for Commercialization

NASA seeks industry partners to cooperatively develop commercial packages
for various UniTree platforms involving operation/analyst tools or mass
storage solutions. This commercialization opportunity is part of the NASA
Technology Transfer Program. The objective of this program is to proactively
involve the private sector in NASA's programs to ensure that the technology
developed will have maximum commercial impact.

This commercial opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer Program.
The objective of this program is to pro actively involve the private sector
in NASA's programs to ensure that the technology developed will have maximum
commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

