 

Engine Monitoring and Control System (E-MACS) Display

An innovative display software technology has been developed at NASA Langley
Research Center to aid pilots in the monitoring and control of aircraft
engines. This technology, called the Engine Monitoring And Control System
(E-MACS) display, has been shown to provide pilots with a better
understanding of engine operational health than commercially available
displays. This technology has a broad non-aerospace potential, since the
display software is applicable to any system whose characteristics can be
modeled.

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Aircraft, Automotive and Marine Engine Monitoring:
        o Adaptable to a wide range of engine-monitoring applications;
          providing the ability to rapidly detect degraded engine operation
   * Hospital Patient Monitoring:
        o Used in the medical field to provide "deviation" data; the degree
          of deviation in a patient's physical condition from accepted norms
          can rapidly be detected
   * Power Plant Facilities:
        o Easily detect small changes in the pressure and fluid levels
          within steam pipes
        o Nuclear power facilities where pipelines often transport hazardous
          waste; abnormal readings may indicate a dangerous task
   * Industrial Applications:
        o Achieve new standards of quality control and reduce manufacturing
          costs
   * Process Control Monitoring:
        o Monitor dynamic, interdependent systems including pumping, piping
          and environmental control systems

Benefits

   * Quick detection of degraded and/or abnormal conditions
   * Reduced operator training
   * Operators can more effectively monitor complex systems

 
Figure 1. E-MACS Concept

 
Figure 2. Conventional Display

The Technology

The Engine Monitoring And Control System (E-MACS) is a display software
technology designed to aid human operators to monitor dynamic systems. This
technology is based upon a knowledge of the normal response characteristics
of the systems that are monitored. The display software takes advantage of a
human operator's natural ability to process visual information.

The computer's knowledge of the system's characteristics can be based upon
something as simple as prerecorded data from a normally operating system.
This knowledge can also be obtained from something as complex as a
multi-mode polynomial model. This model provides sensor data for a normally
functioning engine operating at the same flight conditions as the actual
aircraft engine.

The real power of this technology comes from combining the current system's
sensor data with the internal data from the computer and then presenting
this information in a form that is easy for the human operator to interpret.
The combined sensor data are shown on a column-deviation graph (Figure 1).
The column indicates the difference or deviation between an actual sensors
value from the computer's value at the same flight conditions.
Column-deviation graph(s) allow the human to perform what is called visual
holistic processing. Instead of the operator viewing each sensor value
independently, as is currently done with traditional displays (Figure 2),
the operator can obtain the "whole" picture from the column-deviation
graph(s). In addition, the height of the column is a direct indication of
the amount of the abnormality: the larger the column, the larger the
problem.

Options for Commercialization

This technology opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer Program.
The program seeks to stimulate development of commercial applications from
NASA-developed technology. The E-MACS technology has been implemented and
flight tested. A patent has been granted on the technology and NASA is
seeking applicants to license the technology and/or to foster further
refinement of the technology in the private sector.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

