 

Content Addressable Memory (CAM) ASIC Collaboration (NASA, CEBAF, CNU)

A collaboration group has formed with NASA, the Continuous Electron Beam
Accelerator Facility (CEBAF) and Christopher Newport University (CNU). This
group is developing an Application Specific Integrated Circuit (ASIC)
Content Addressable Memory (CAM) chip. The CAM will be a 256 x 32 bit
specialized memory chip.

The project has two important technology transfer items. The first is the
CAM chip design. Although the chip is designed for a detector system of a
high energy particle system, other applications would include routing
networks, or in Artificial Intelligence applications. The second item is the
process of partnering to find solutions to a common goal. In this case, the
common goal is the Integrated Circuit design process.

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Pattern Recognition Systems
   * Network Communication and Routing
   * Inference Engine for Expert Systems
   * Associative Processor for Artificial Intelligence
   * Other Collaborations between Universities, Industry

 

Benefits

   * 32 bit, 16 bit or byte wide operations
   * Matches are latched on a byte basis
   * Sequential output of all addresses that matched
   * Time Independence when matching bytes
   * Majority logic that will allow word matches on 1-4 bytes matching

The Technology

A CAM chip behaves much like ordinary computer memory. The basic operation
of the chip is to compare data taken from the detectors to known data tracks
of particles and give an indication if a match occurs. You can write data
into the memory, and you can read data from it. But, the CAM chip also has
the ability to compare a piece of data to the internally stored data. If the
data compared matches any of the internally stored data then the CAM signals
that there was a match. The current version of the CAM would then
sequentially output the addresses of all internal words that matched.

When the CAM chip has a match on a byte, a hit bit is latched internally. A
special feature of the current version of the CAM chip allows a programmable
number of hits (1-4), before announcing that a match has occurred. Also, the
CAM design has been generalized to make it useful in other applications. The
chip can be used in 32 bit, 16 bit or 8 bit wide systems.

As an added feature the current version of the chip exhibits time
independence in the matching of bytes. This means that before a word match
is announced each byte must match, in any order and without any time
dependencies.

 

Options for Commercialization

Although the CAM design is being released through publication, we are also
seeking partnership with industry to further develop technology.

NASA is actively promoting partnerships that involve industry, and
universities, in developing new technologies that have commercial uses, as
well as research opportunities. This commercial opportunity is part of the
NASA Technology Transfer Program. The objective of this program is to pro
actively involve the private sector in NASA's programs to ensure that the
technology developed will have maximum commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

