 

Data Acquisition System - Medium Frequency Open Architecture

A real-time medium frequency data acquisition system has been ported to an
open architecture platform. Such systems have traditionally been available
only on proprietary hardware platforms. This system is cheaper to install
and maintain, and has higher throughput than its proprietary counterpart.

 

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Aerospace: Wind tunnel testing and data acquisition
   * Chemical: Process monitoring and control
   * Structure and Material Laboratories: Medium frequency material stress
     and strain analysis

Benefits

   * Performance: This data system is capable of driving its data
     acquisition front ends at maximum rate utilizing less than 10-percent
     of the CPU throughput
   * Key Features: This data system uses off the shelf commercially
     available hardware components making it much cheaper to purchase than
     proprietary solutions
   * Hardware / Software Supported: The Medium Frequency Data Acquisition
     system runs on the Motorola 88100 family of CPUs operating under the
     REAL/IX real-time UNIX operating system
   * Data Acquisition Front Ends Supported: Supports the Neff Instruments
     Series 600 Data acquisition system for analog and digital signal input
     and the Pressure Systems Incorporated Model 8400 and 780B
     Electronically Scanned Pressure (ESP) data acquisition system for
     pressure data

The Technology

State of the art open architecture components are used in the data
acquisition system along with a real-time version of the UNIX System V
operating system. Data Acquisition software is coded in FORTRAN 77 and C.
The data acquisition system includes a custom device driver for the VMIC VME
DMA controller that interfaces the system with the Neff Instruments Series
600 Data acquisition system. Interface to the PSI ESP 8400/780B is via the
IEEE 488 interface.

The Acquisition and Computation software for the Data Acquisition System was
developed by Langley Research Center to meet the needs of its wind tunnel
research facilities. The DAS was ported to the Open Architecture environment
to take advantage of lower prices and higher performance hardware available
in that environment. The data acquisition software has built-in features
making it particularly useful in the wind tunnel testing environment such as
support for six-component strain gauge balances used to measure forces on
aero models.

Options for Commercialization

NASA seeks industry partners to cooperatively develop a commercial software
product based on the Medium Frequency Open Architecture Data Acquisition
Software. The software is not copyrighted or patented at this time.

This commercialization opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer
Program. The objective of this program is to proactively involve the private
sector in NASA's programs to ensure that the technology developed will have
maximum commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

