 

Water Wings

A spinoff of NASA's aircraft wake research

As a spinoff of NASA's aircraft wake research, water wings have been
developed to demonstrate the feasibility of improving the water quality in
the Chesapeake Bay by enhanced oxygen mixing. Beneficial characteristics of
airfoil wake vortices were applied to the sea environment.

 
Sketch of typical water wing concept

 
Photo of water wings under construction

 
Photo of water wings during retrieval after testing

 
Photo of water wings during retrieval after testing

 
Photo of water wings during retrieval after testing

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Design of enhanced mixing systems for:
        o Atmospheric environments
        o Marine environments

Benefits

   * Water wings extract the energy required for mixing from the ambient
     environment and thus requires no power source
   * Improve oxygen mixing in seawater
   * Improve mixing in atmospheric environments

The Technology

During hot weather, water in the Chesapeake forms layers with warm,
less-dense water overlaying colder water. This inhibits the vertical mixing
of oxygen from water near the surface and often causes death to marine life
near the bottom. A wing generates a fluid motion with two important
features:

  1. A linear motion which can transport fluid
  2. A pair of long-lasting, tornado-like motions, termed vortices, which
     are imbedded in the linear motion.

In an airport environment these vortices can be hazardous to other aircraft
and therefore NASA has developed technology for predicting both the extent
of linear transport and the duration of the hazardous vortices. The Water
Wing was designed using this technology to provide optimal transport and
mixing of oxygen in the Bay environment. The design, development, and
testing of the Water Wing was a joint program involving the Virginia
Institute of Marine Science, College of William and Mary, the NASA Langley
Research Center, and AS&M Inc.

Options for Commercialization

This commercialization opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer
Program. The objective of this program is to proactively involve the private
sector in NASA's programs to ensure that the technology developed will have
maximum commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

