 

An Affordable Architecture for Full Internet Access

As the amount and variety of information available on the Internet continues
to expand, an efficient and economical method for accessing Internet
resources becomes increasingly important. An affordable method for
connecting a local area network (LAN) to Internet services including E-mail,
gopher, file transfer protocol (FTP), and the World Wide Web (WWW) has been
developed by NASA Langley's High Performance Computing and Communications
K-12 Program and is currently being implemented by public school systems
within the Virginia Hampton Roads region. An Ethernet LAN that consists of
more than 20 Macintosh, PC-compatible, and UNIX computers can have full
Internet access with only a single standard phone line. The affordability of
this model is achieved by distributing the financial burden of the high-cost
items (high-bandwidth Internet connection and full-time network system
administration) throughout a regional consortium. Thus, after an initial
capital investment, the only remaining cost is a small monthly fee paid by
each local site to support the consortium's central connection hub.

Potential Commercial Uses

   * K-12 education: Provide student access to the most current, up-to-date
     information on the Internet
   * Libraries: Internet workstations for public use
   * Small-business consortia: Low-cost internal networking to provide
     Internet access and E-mail

Benefits

   * Low cost: After an initial investment of less than $10K per site,
     monthly line and consortium costs of about $100 per site (based on
     number of members within the consortium)
   * Continuous, graphical Internet access: No dialing of phone numbers, no
     hourly usage limits or charges
   * Based on open standards: No proprietary standards are used
   * Efficient use of resources: One phone line provides Internet
     connectivity for more than 20 computers
   * Decentralized: Each computer has a unique Internet address. Each site
     can assign hundreds of E-mail accounts
   * Proper foundation for expansion: Upgradeable without major hardware
     changes or personnel retraining

 
Consortium-based Internet Access Model

The Technology

Since 1993, the NASA Langley HPCC K-12 Program has been developing and
implementing a low-cost Internet connection model for high schools on the
Virginia Peninsula. This model includes the system design, training, and
support, needed to provide Internet access for a network of machines, rather
than for individual machines. The infrastructure developed does not
represent individual or groups of machines that dial out into a bulletin
board system (BBS) or access the Internet with text-only terminal emulation,
but allows more than 20 machines per school to independently access the
complete functionality offered by the Internet. As the demand for faster
Internet access grows in the schools, the model has a simple expansion path
that eliminates the need to replace major system components and retrain
personnel. The functionality of this model is identical to that which exists
at most universities and government laboratories.

Two high-cost items are associated with the connection of a network to the
Internet: UNIX system administration and a high-bandwidth connection to the
regional Internet provider (SURAnet in the southeastern U.S.). By locating
both resources at a central site and sharing these resources and their costs
among the individual local sites throughout the region, a practical,
efficient, and affordable infrastructure for providing Internet connectivity
on a large scale has been developed. Each local site connects to the central
site through an analog phone line with state-of-the-art commercial modem
technology. By using data-compression techniques, effective throughputs of
up to 70Kbit/sec are achieved, surpassing the uncompressed performance of
current low-end leased-line technology.

Observations of typical Internet usage within an environment, particularly
school classrooms, have shown that after an initial period of "surfing," the
Internet traffic becomes repetitive, with several hundred locations being
visited frequently. By automatically storing the information contained at
these Internet sites on a large-capacity, networked disk drive at the local
site (known as disk caching), and updating this information only when it
changes at the remote Internet site, well over 70 percent of the Internet
traffic that leaves a location can be eliminated. The requested information
is retrieved from the local disk cache.

Options for Commercialization

This technology opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer Program.
The program seeks to stimulate development of commercial applications from
NASA-developed technology. This low-cost architecture for full Internet
access has been implemented and proven in Virginia's Hampton Roads public
school system and is currently being implemented in southwestern Virginia.
NASA is seeking applicants to cooperatively develop and implement this
technology in the private sector.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

