 

Surface Navigation in Low Visibility Conditions

NASA and industry are developing new automated technologies

NASA and industry are developing new automated technologies to improve
safety and increase capacity of the airport surface movement area during low
visibility conditions. As part of this joint effort, an electronic moving
map display has been integrated with a surface radar system and a high speed
data link. By sending controller information and air traffic positions to
aircraft by a digital data link, pilots will be more aware of the airport
environment in all weather conditions.

 
Schematic of ASTA flight concept

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Any navigation systems, including:
        o Automotive
        o Rail
        o Ships
        o Aircraft
        o Police, fire, ambulance

Benefits

   * Improve safety
   * Improve situational awareness
   * Improve guidance and communications
   * Reduce user workload
   * Eliminate need for paper maps
   * Improve airport productivity

The Technology

NASA Langley Research Center and industry partners have integrated several
technologies that address airport surface operations issues. These
technologies include: an electronic moving map display, Differential Global
Positioning System (DGPS), high speed data link, surface radar, automated
surface warning system, and transponder based vehicle identification. The
electronic moving map display shows all runways and taxiways on an airport
as well as surface traffic positions, air traffic control instructions, and
automated warning information. DGPS is a method of determining the location
of an object on the earth's surface within centimeters. The high speed data
link transmits information using VHF radios, in this instance from the
airport surface to an aircraft. Airport Surface Detection Equipment, or
ASDE-3 radar, employs sophisticated digital signal processing to detect and
provide the location of ground traffic in nearly all weather conditions. The
Airport Movement Area Safety System, or AMASS, is an automated collision
avoidance system for use with the ASDE-3 radar that monitors airport surface
traffic to advise ground controllers of potential incursions on runways and
at taxiway intersections. A specialized transponder provides vehicle
identification to the ASDE-3 radar for display to the controller next to the
appropriate radar return.

Options for Commercialization

This commercialization opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer
Program. The objective of this program is to proactively involve the private
sector in NASA's programs to ensure that the technology developed will have
maximum commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

