 

Data Acquisition System - Dynamic Open Architecture

A dynamic data acquisition system has been developed for two different open
architecture platforms. Such systems have traditionally been available only
on proprietary hardware platforms. This system is cheaper to install and
maintain, and has higher throughput than its proprietary counterpart.

 

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Aerospace: Wind tunnel testing and data acquisition
   * Acoustics: Acoustics data acquisition and frequency analysis
   * Structure and Material Laboratories: High frequency material stress,
     strain and impact analysis

Benefits

   * Performance: This data system is capable of transferring data from its
     front end at a rate of 1 million samples per second in real-time or
     600K samples per second post-test. This throughput allows for a rapid
     transition between test sets. The data acquisition front end supports
     data sampling rates of up to 1 million samples per second per channel.
   * Key Features: This data system uses off the shelf commercially
     available hardware components and a commercial off the shelf software
     package making it much cheaper to purchase than proprietary solutions.
   * Hardware / Software Supported: The Dynamic Data Acquisition Software
     runs on the Digital Equipment Corporation family of Alpha CPUs or the
     Motorola 88100 family of CPUs operating under the OSF/1 and REAL/ IX
     real-time UNIX operating systems respectively.
   * Data Acquisition Front Ends Supported: Supports the Neff Instruments
     System 495 Data Acquisition and Recording system for data input

The Technology

State of the art open architecture components are used in the dynamic data
acquisition system along with real-time versions of the UNIX System V
operating system. Data Acquisition software is coded in C. The man-machine
interface is developed using the SL-GMS graphic user interface from SL
Corporation. The data acquisition system included a custom device driver for
the SCSI 2 controller that interfaces the system with the Neff Instruments
System 495 Data acquisition system.

The Acquisition and Computation software for the Data Acquisition System was
developed by Langley Research Center to meet the needs of its structure and
acoustics research facilities. The data acquisition software has built-in
features making it particularly useful in these types of facilities such as
the ability to display data in either the frequency or time domain.

Options for Commercialization

NASA seeks industry partners to cooperatively develop a commercial software
product based on the Open Architecture Data Acquisition Software. The
software is not copyrighted or patented at this time.

This commercialization opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer
Program. The objective of this program is to proactively involve the private
sector in NASA's programs to ensure that the technology developed will have
maximum commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

