 

Graphical Weather Information in the Cockpit (CWIN)

A live graphical weather information system has been conceived, developed,
and tested at NASA Langley Research Center for utilization in domestic
airline operations. This system, called the Cockpit Weather Information
(CWIN) system, displays live ground based weather data that is not available
in today's aircraft. The interactive CWIN system was built using a color
display with an overlaid touch screen.

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Cockpit weather information
   * Preflight weather briefing
   * Dispatcher weather information
   * Interactive mobile weather information for the military, shipping and
     transportation industry

 

Benefits

   * Efficiency: Complete and easily yields more efficient reroute decisions
     when adverse weather is encountered
   * Safety: Better weather information leads to enhanced adverse weather
     avoidance and resulting smoother and safer flight paths
   * Situation Awareness: Graphical real time weather displays results in
     enhanced weather situation awareness in flight crews

The Technology

The cockpit weather information (CWIN) system utilizes a color graphical
display with a touch screen overlay for building a user friendly pilot
interface. A state of the art digital communications system between the air
and ground is assumed, implying graphical weather data can be broadcast to
all aircraft in flight. The CWIN system displays national radar mosaics, air
to ground lightning strikes, and surface observations.

Simulation test results show that the CWIN graphical weather system improves
flight efficiency, safety, and situation awareness. Pilot comments and
questionnaires showed that the pilots liked the graphical weather system,
felt that it enhanced safety of flight during adverse weather conditions,
and increased their weather monitoring ability.

Options for Commercialization

NASA LaRC seeks industry partners to cooperatively develop commercial
products based on CWIN Technology.

This commercial opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer Program.
The objective of this program is to proactively involve the private sector
in NASA's programs to ensure that the technology developed will have maximum
commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

