 

Environment For Application Software Integration and Execution (EASIE)

EASIE is a methodology and a set of software utilities developed by NASA
Langley Research Center for integrating and coordinating the use of computer
programs. Under user direction, EASIE controls the execution of
independently developed programs and manages the flow of data to and from a
common data base to accomplish design or analysis objectives. Software tools
are provided to minimize the effort required of programmers to integrate
programs. EASIE also provides a level of independence from the data base
management system (DBMS) making conversion to another DBMS simpler than
conversion through conventional techniques.

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Software tools for improving productivity of computer programmers
   * Software tools for improving productivity of computer users

Benefits

   * Programmer productivity
   * Aids in the integration of programs with a DBMS
   * Eases the burden of program/data base maintenance
   * Simplifies data transfer between data bases
   * Documents data base contents and data flow among programs
   * User productivity
   * Provides a consistent, efficient (point-and-click) user interface
     requiring minimal knowledge of computer operating systems

The Technology

EASIE is an integrated approach for data management and program integration.
It is comprised of two major subsystems:

Data base tools for program integration.
Allows programmers to:

   * Construct a data dictionary (logical description of data base contents
     and data flow)
   * Automatically generate data base from the data dictionary
   * Automatically generate computer codes to store/retrieve data into/from
     the data base >li>Automatically generate instructions for
     spreadsheet-like Reviewer utility to view/edit data

Executive program for control of interactive and batch environments.
Allows users to:

   * Construct custom menus to access applications
   * Select a set of programs
   * Select a configuration (data base)
   * View and edit data
   * Select and execute application programs

Langley Research Center has found EASIE to be a valuable tool both in the
initial integration of programs through a common data base and for continued
maintenance of a system of integrated programs. Use of EASIE significantly
increases the productivity of the integration programming staff and reduces
the effort required to maintain and enhance a system of integrated programs.
Added benefits include freeing the programmer from the need for detailed
knowledge of a specific DBMS and automating the conversion from one DBMS to
another. Thus, the resulting system of programs is not tied to a particular
DBMS. EASIE provides a common, consistent interface for the user of the
integrated system and does not require the user to have detailed knowledge
of the DBMS or computer operating system to modify data and execute
applications. EASIE has been distributed to Boeing Inc, and
McDonnell-Douglas Inc. Boeing's Military Airplane Co. constructed an
integrated system of programs using EASIE called Vehicle Synthesis System
(VSS). VSS has been successfully demonstrated to Boeing's management to
increase both programmer and engineer productivity while decreasing the
maintenance burden of the system. Boeing's Commercial Airplane Co. has also
requested EASIE for use in integration of its design and analysis programs
and plans to use EASIE as a framework for analyzing data flow throughout the
design process.

Options for Commercialization

NASA seeks industry partners to assist in developing EASIE.

This commercialization opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer
Program. The objective of this program is to proactively involve the private
sector in NASA's programs to ensure that the technology developed will have
maximum commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

