 

ADAPT

Approach to Data Management, Archive, Protection, and Transmission

Managing information has long been a requirement of any project. Recent
advances in computer hardware, software and network technologies have made
it easier to generate increasing amounts of information of varying types
which must be shared with a wider range of individuals. These advances have
created new problems areas such as remote data access and data security. The
result is that data management has become both a more complex and a more
critical component of many projects. In support of a joint wind tunnel
project by NASA Langley Research Center and the aerospace industry, an
integrated approach to data management was developed to address the above
issues. The methodology and software tools comprising the Approach to Data
Management, Archive, Protection and Transmission (ADAPT) could be applied to
help solve information management needs in other projects.

 
The ADAPT System

Potential Commercial Uses

The integrated approach and selectable tool set employed by ADAPT are not
dependent on any particular application nor restricted to any particular
data types.

   * Project support documentation creation and organization
   * On-line information sharing (with security)
   * Data tracking (storage, query, preview and retrieval)
   * Common end-user interface to ADAPT and project-specific applications

Benefits

   * the approach and tools are project independent
   * selectable, customizable and extensible software tools
   * access to data from remote machines
   * optional and transparent data security
   * integrated management/creation for project documentation
   * short-term and long-term data management
   * open systems approach
   * point-and-click user interface

The Technology

In the Information Age, data management is rapidly increasing in both
importance and complexity. The definition of data is expanding beyond
conventional technical data to include documentation, images, graphs,
metadata (data about data), etc. In addition, people are beginning to expect
near real-time access to such data from remote sites which is resulting in
concerns over short- and long-term archival, data transmission, and data
security. ADAPT is an integrated approach to data management, developed to
support a joint NASA and industry wind tunnel project, that addresses many
of the issues of managing information with today's technology.

Although ADAPT is primarily composed of a collection of software tools, the
"Approach" portion of ADAPT must be emphasized. For it is in the way that
these tools are applied and integrated for a particular project that
determine the success of ADAPT in managing information. For this reason the
software tool set is designed to be customizable, extensible and optionally
selectable based on project requirements and capabilities of the native
computing environment.

ADAPT utilizes both the features and extension capability of the World Wide
Web (WWW) technology to provide the end-user interface as well as a
transparent and internal interface with the other ADAPT software tools. For
example, interfaces to the security encryption/decryption software and the
electronic mail facility are included in this collection of tools. These
interfaces use both the public domain HyperText Transfer Protocol (HTTP)
server and the Mosaic browser, available from the National Center for
Supercomputer Applications (NSCA). The NASA Langley developed Program for
Information Storage and Management (PrISM) is used for storing, querying,
previewing and retrieving project specific data. The PrISM data and/or
metadata tracking tool (built atop a commercial Data Base Management System
(DBMS)) provides a common graphical user interface that is independent of
the underlying data model. In order to integrate supporting documentation
into the data management equation, tools were developed to create an
electronic notebook. A WYSIWYG ("what you see is what you get") HyperText
Markup Language (HTML) editor was developed for creating individual pages. A
PageManager program was developed for collecting and organizing these pages
into a notebook format. Finally, the WWW interface tools discussed
previously, were extended to provide a capability for remote collaboration
on the notebook.

Options for Commercialization

NASA seeks industry partners to assist in further evolving the ADAPT
approach and developing production ready versions of the software support
tools. This commercialization opportunity is part of the NASA Technology
Transfer Program. The objective of this program is to proactively involve
the private sector in NASA's programs to ensure that the technology
developed will have maximum commercial impact

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

