 

The Smart Compass

High Tech, Low Cost Aircraft Heading Reference

A fresh approach to reliable, low-cost heading reference instrumentation for
general aviation aircraft has been developed. It uses a simplified fluxgate
magnetometer design in conjunction with microcomputer technology to solve
the inherent problems of the magnetic compass so that the directional
gyroscope currently used to circumvent these operational problems may be
discarded with a resultant reduction in cost and an improvement in
reliability.

Directional autopilot capabilities can be realized with little added
complexity.

 
Smart Compass schematic

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Experimental Aircraft Association home- builder's aircraft kit
   * General aviation aircraft instrument
   * Boats and automobile reference instrument
   * A heading reference for Remotely Piloted vehicles
   * The fluxgate portion of the instrument can be used for bore-hole
     surveys
   * Study of the fluctuations of the earth's magnetic field

Benefits

   * Ultimate simplicity
   * Low cost construction
   * Low power requirements
   * High accuracy
   * Multiple applications
   * Proven utility

The Technology

For many years, the accepted heading reference for general aviation aircraft
has been the "wet compass" teamed with a directional gyro to circumvent its
many faults. The compass provides an absolute heading reference, viable only
during straight-and-level flight, while the DG is a stable secondary
reference., immune to the effects or rough air and turning errors. The DG is
relatively expensive, and, due to the high-speed rotor, enjoys an uncertain
service life. The DG must be reset periodically to correspond to the
magnetic compass to correct for inherent drift.

Researchers at NASA Langley have developed means for overcoming the
deficiencies of the magnetic compass, so that the directional gyroscope is
no longer needed. The Smart Compass utilizes an exceptionally simple
fluxgate magnetometer, together with a microcontroller chip to calculate and
display the magnetic heading of the vehicle. The presence of the
microcontoller allows other useful features to be incorporated at little
added complexity.

The addition of a solid-state sensor measuring turning rate provides
compensation for northerly turning error.

Options for Commercialization

NASA seeks industry partners to cooperatively develop commercial products
based on the Smart Compass technology.

This technology development opportunity is part of the NASA Technology
Transfer Program. The objective of this program is to actively involve the
private sector in NASA's programs to ensure that the technology developed
will have maximum commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

