 

Instrumented Fasteners For Shear Force Measurements

Sensitive shear force sensors have been developed using standard fasteners
instrumented with strain gages. The new sensor provides a method for
measuring individual fastener shear loads in a joint containing multiple
fasteners.

 
Potential Commercial Uses

   * Monitor fastener shear loads in critical joints
   * Monitor shaft line loads
   * Research instrument for investigating load transfer in highly loaded
     joints in composite structure and ceramic or low-strain-to-failure
     structure or in special structural applications

Benefits

   * Performance: The newly developed sensor provides a direct measurement
     of the loads carried by individual fasteners in joints as compared with
     previous techniques which rely on measurements in other parts of the
     joint to indirectly evaluate the performance of the individual
     fasteners
   * Key Features: Shear force sensors can be developed for a wide variety
     of fastener sizes and types and for a wide range of fastener loads and
     torque levels. The sensors can be used in both single and double lap
     joints and can be used in single or multiple applications
   * Fabrication: Shear force sensors can be fabricated from standard
     commercially available fasteners using proven machining and strain gage
     application techniques

The Technology

The development of advanced structural concepts and designs requires a good
understanding of the distribution of fastener shear loads in structural
joints. Present techniques for measuring the shear load distribution in
joints are inadequate. A shear force sensor has been developed using
commercial fasteners that provides a method for measuring individual
fastener shear loads in single and double lap joints containing multiple
fasteners. The sensors consist of commercial fasteners instrumented with a
series of strain gages bonded to flats machined on the surface of the
fasteners. The strain gages are oriented at ±45¡ to the axis of the fastener
and are centered in the plane of the faying surfaces of the joint. The
actual fasteners used in the joint can be instrumented and calibrated and
used as the sensor or special sensors can be substituted for the actual
fasteners. The sensors can be used to investigate how the loads are being
transferred in the joint or can be used as a permanent installation to
indicate when the fastener loads exceed a certain value.

Options for Commercialization

NASA seeks industry partners to cooperatively develop commercial products
based on the shear force sensor technology. The shear force sensor
technology has been in the public domain for several years and a license is
not required.

This commercialization opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer
Program. The objective of this program is to proactively involve the private
sector in NASA's programs to ensure that the technology developed will have
maximum commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

