 

Natural Gas Energy Monitor

A new, fast technique to monitor the energy content of natural gas has been
developed. Energy content may be monitored in real-time, on-line, from any
station from well to consumer location. No elaborate set-up is required.
This combustion-based natural gas energy monitor provides quick and accurate
results in the lab or in the field.

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Manufacturing plant process control & monitoring
   * Power plant process control & monitoring
   * Oil refinery process control & monitoring
   * Natural gas well, pipeline, & pumping station monitoring
   * Natural gas combustion diagnostics
   * Consumer gas supply quality monitoring

Benefits

   * Speed: Energy content is displayed in real-time
   * Simplicity: A minimum of components. 3-point calibration minimizes
     error
   * Flexibility: Works over a range of flowrates & under adverse conditions

 
System diagram

 

The Technology

Chemical energy is converted to heat when natural gas is burned. Since
natural gas is a mixture of pure hydrocarbon gases (methane, ethane,
propane, etc.) each with its own characteristic energy content, the bulk
energy content of a natural gas sample can vary from well to well and
consequently from point to point in a pipeline or distribution system. And,
since natural gas is sold by energy content as well as by volume, a quick
and accurate means of monitoring energy content is necessary.

Energy content may be monitored in real-time in the lab, manufacturing
plant, power plant, or at any location in a distribution system. This
monitor offers several features:

   * Combustion-based method assures accurate results
   * Energy content is updated at user-selected intervals
   * May be used over a range of flowrates
   * Flame-heated sample probe tip ensures complete combustion
   * Operates in less-than-optimum environments
   * Simple three-point calibration

The Natural Gas Energy Monitor mixes the natural gas with air which is then
burned to produce a preset level of oxygen in the exhaust. The flowrate of
the natural gas required to maintain this preset level of oxygen is
inversely related to the energy content of the natural gas. The higher the
energy content of natural gas, the lower will be the required flowrate. The
monitor converts this flowrate directly to energy content in units selected
by the user.

Test results involving methane, ethane, and methane/nitrogen mixtures
validate this technique.

Options for Commercialization

This commercialization opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer
Program. The objective of this program is to proactively involve the private
sector in NASA's programs to ensure that the technology developed will have
maximum commercial impact.

NASA seeks partners in industry to cooperate in the further development of
this technology for which the patent application process has been initiated.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

