 

The Surgical Force Detection Probe

A new hand held multiple component force measurement device has been
developed for use in the medical field. This device can be used to monitor
the force applied to a patient throughout a medical operation. Readout
instrumentation, which provides complete isolation between the input and
output signals, is provided.

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Training tool to help residents to develop techniques required in
     surgery
   * Device to measure structural loads for a variety of industrial
     applications
   * Ergonomic tool design
   * Handwriting analysis using the probe as an instrumented writing tool

Benefits

   * Performance: Allows establishment of base line force data during
     surgery. To our knowledge, this type of force data has not previously
     been acquired during surgery. Base line force data may lead to new
     concepts in surgeries involving critical nerves

   * Key Features: To our knowledge, there are no competing technical
     products which are currently on the market

   * Fabrications: Force measurement transducers using this technology can
     be fabricated in a wide variety of sizes and can be as small as 0.25
     inch in diameter

The Technology

The pen shaped surgical force detection probe, measuring 0.5 inch in
diameter and six inches in length, was designed and fabricated using
techniques derived from internal strain-gage balances. Strain-gage balances
are standard force and moment sensing transducers which measure the
aerodynamic force vectors and couples that are generated on models in wind
tunnel testing. The technology requires machining measuring beams in a good
spring material. This structurally weakens the material to make the beams
sensitive to the loads to be measured. Strain-gages are applied to the
measuring beams. The gages are wired in a wheatstone bridge arrangement.
When connected to a power supply and data acquisition system, electrical
signals proportional to the applied loads are produced and recorded. The
surgical probe measures the forces and movement transmitted through the
surgeon's hand to the human tissues.

Options for Commercialization

NASA seeks industry partners to cooperatively develop commercial
applications based on the Surgical Force Detection Probe.

This commercialization opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer
Program. The objective of this program is to proactively involve the private
sector in NASA's programs to ensure that the technology developed will have
maximum commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

