 

High-Speed, Fiber Optic Flame Detection System

NASA seeks to transfer into the commercial sector NASA-developed technology
for the development of a high speed flame detection system capable of
sustained operation in a high pressure combustion chamber. This device,
developed at NASA's Langley Research Center, offers an opportunity for the
development of a fast responding, optical based, flame sensing system for
commercial applications. NASA seeks a commercial partner to work
cooperatively with NASA experts to develop commercial applications for this
device. Commercial licenses are available.

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Flame detection system for furnaces, burners, and free-standing flames
   * Pilot light detector
   * Welding flame sensor
   * Any UV sensing application where optical access poses a problem

Benefits

   * Able to survive pressures up to 4000 psi
   * -100 deg. F to 750 deg. F operating range for the optical probes
   * Less than 10 millisecond system response time
   * Optical probes enable optical sensing in applications where direct line
     of sight is not possible

The Technology

A need existed for a fast responding flame detection system to monitor the
main combustor flame at NASA Langley Research Center's 8-Ft. High
Temperature Tunnel (8-Ft. HTT). Computer models of a combustor flameout
suggested that current flame detection systems would respond too slowly in
detecting an unplanned combustor flameout during tunnel operation. A fast
responding flame detection system would prevent excessive quantities of
additional fuel from entering the combustor after the main flame has gone
out. If the mixture did re-ignite, the resulting theoretical pressure pulse
would not exceed the design limits of the combustor. In addition, it would
not be possible to make any additional perforations in the combustion
chamber liner to view the main flame since this would seriously compromise
the structural integrity of the chamber.

The optical flameout detection system (OFDS) developed for this facility
monitors light energy in discrete spectral bands (200-600 nanometers) with
two independent electro-optical detectors. The detectors and their necessary
electronics are located within a sealed enclosure outside the combustor.
Light energy from the combustion process is optically coupled to the
detectors through a pair of 20 ft. long, 0.0625 inch dia. fiber optic
probes. These probes are optimized to detect the hydroxide emission line @
312 nanometers from the oxidizing methane fuel. They are comprised of a
single, fused silica core optical fiber enhanced for transmission in the UV
portion of the spectrum.

Selection of the sensor electronics and logic circuitry were made to
optimize the OFDS for fast response. Calibration tests of the OFDS in the
laboratory to a simulated flameout determined that the response time of the
system from detection to relay closure is under 10 milliseconds.

Options for Commercialization

This technology opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer Program.
The program seeks to stimulate the development of commercial applications
from NASA developed technology. The Langley Research Center seeks a
commercial partner to license the technology and develop commercial
applications.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

