 

Ultra-High Speed Photo Detectors for Atmospheric Sensors and Optical
Communication

Ultra-fast photo detectors with near THz bandwidth performance have been
developed and optimized. By using nanoscale features (<0.2 microns), novel
device geometry developed at NASA, and correct scaling rules, these devices
have achieved record high-speed operation. When fabricated on GaAs or
InGaAs, these photo detectors can be easily integrated with signal
processing electronics to produce monolithic OEIC circuits.

Potential Commercial Uses

   * 100 Gbit/sec. fiber-optic receivers
   * Wide-range (60 GHz) swept-frequency mm and sub-mm signal sources
   * Time-resolved measurement instrumentation with sub-picosecond
     resolution

Benefits

   * Novel device geometry for reduced parasitics (capacitance and
     inductance)
   * Passivation to reduce surface recombination, which degrades high-speed
     performance
   * Correct scaling rules to optimize bandwidth and utilize ballistic
     transport, velocity overshoot effects

 

 

The Technology

Metal-semiconductor-metal (MSM) photo detectors can be used to achieve
unprecedented high-speed response because the response time is controlled by
the spacing between electrodes in the device structure, a feature which can
be controlled in the fabrication process. Using direct-write e-beam
lithography, this spacing can be made very small, thus allowing extremely
fast response times. Using such state-of-the-art techniques to produce
devices with electrode spacings on the order of 100 nm and less,
subpicosecond response times have been achieved.

Investigators at NASA Langley Research Center in cooperation with the Naval
Research Laboratory and the University of Virginia, have developed this
technology to yield unprecedented performance in support of remote
atmospheric sensing applications. A novel device geometry employing circular
electrodes has been used along with carefully developed scaling rules to
optimize the performance of these devices. Additionally, several forms of
passivation have been explored, including the use of InGaP (developed in
conjunction with NASA Goddard Space Flight Center) to avoid the long-term
aging and stability problems sometimes associated with AlGaAs.

Options for Commercialization

NASA seeks industry partners to develop products based on the application of
these devices. In addition to the most obvious application involving
high-speed fiber-optic links, Picometrics, Inc., has identified
swept-frequency signal sources, a derivative of NASA's original atmospheric
sensing application for these devices, as a particularly promising area of
application. However, no licenses have been granted and no formal
arrangements between NASA and Picometrics, Inc., currently exist.

This commercialization opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer
Program. The objective of this program is to proactively involve the private
sector in NASA's programs to ensure that the technology developed will have
the maximum commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

