 

Low Energy Positron Generator -
High Flux Thermal Positron Source for Characterizing Thin Polymer Films

A new technique has been developed for producing high fluxes of low energy
positrons. It generates thermal positrons with an efficiency which is about
an order of magnitude higher than the highest reported value from the
conventional sources.

 
Langley generator produces 10 times more thermal positrons than conventional
sources

 
Moderator-Source Assembly

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Non-destructive microstructural characterization of thin polymer films
   * Monitoring adhesion quality of protective thin film coatings
   * Development of low dielectric constant polymer films
   * Development of gas selective membranes

Benefits

   * Performance: This generator produces about 10 times more low energy
     positrons than conventional sources
   * Key features: It requires no special sample preparation; the test
     sample remains in ambient (room temperature and atmospheric pressure)
     environment
   * Assembly: The generator can be readily assembled in any research or
     industrial laboratory

The Technology

Positrons are antiparticles of electrons. Upon entering condensed matter,
they thermalize readily and then annihilate with the host electrons. The
annihilation process is very sensitive to the density and momentum
distribution of the host electrons. The microstructure of the materials is
manifested in these annihilating electrons. Thus, a measurement of the
survival time (lifetime) of the positrons in materials (molecular solids
such as polymers) provides direct information about defects and microvoid
distributions in it. This information about the microstructure reveals the
physical and electrical properties of the test material.

The investigation of microstructural fractures of thin, high performance
polymer films usually requires high fluxes of low energy positrons for quick
characterization. The NASA Langley generator meets this need very
conveniently and more efficiently.

Options for Commercialization

The NASA Langley generator has been patented and is available for use by the
industry - particularly the high performance polymer industry. NASA Langley
scientists are willing to demonstrate the capability and applicability of
the generator for thin film improvement/development for specific
applications.

This commercial opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer Program
. The objective of this program is to proactively involve the private sector
in NASA's program to ensure that the technology developed will have maximum
commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

