 

Measuring Seebeck Inhomogeneity of Thermocouples

The measurement accuracy of a thermocouple is severely impacted if a
significant inhomogeneity and a temperature gradient are present in the same
region of the probe. The Seebeck inhomogeneity is an abnormal variation of
the Seebeck coefficient from point to point in the thermocouple material and
is not disclosed in conventional calibration. An apparatus has been
developed that measures the Seebeck inhomogeneity of a sheathed thermocouple
probe and expresses the results as a measured quantity.

 
System for measuring the Seebeck inhomogeneity of sheathed thermocouples

 
Platinum sheathed type R thermocouple with 20 cm insertion into an 1100 deg.
C furnace with stainless steel exposure for 16 hours

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Thermocouple manufacturers - Quality assurance requires knowledge of
     inhomogeneity
   * Calibration laboratories - Evaluating inhomogeneity is a necessary step
     in calibration
   * Research laboratories and industrial plants - In-house quality
     assurance and calibration departments, especially where thermocouples
     are used in harsh environments, at high temperatures, or for long
     durations

Benefits

   * Ability to calibrate to a definite accuracy
   * Ability to make uncertainty analysis
   * Ability to assess damage to probes
   * The study of thermoelectric thermometry

The Technology

The extent to which an inhomogeneous thermocouple probe produces an error is
dependent upon the variation in the Seebeck coefficient and the temperature
gradient along the probe. Seeback inhomogeneity is not disclosed in
conventional calibrations. With this apparatus, the Seebeck coefficient of
each segment along the probe is measured by passing the probe, step-by-step,
through a narrow, well-defined temperature differential. One end of the
probe is maintained at room temperature with forced air, and the other end
of the probe is heated by inserting it into a bath of liquid metal at 100
deg. C. Thus, the measured emf is contributed to the segment of the probe
that is at that time being subjected to the temperature step.

Options for Commercialization

NASA seeks industry partners to cooperatively develop commercial products
based on measuring the Seebeck Inhomogeneity of thermocouples. This
technology is protected by Langley patent applications. This commercial
opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer Program. The objective
of this program is to proactively involve the private sector in NASA's
programs to ensure that the technology developed will have maximum
commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

