 

Esophageal and Urodynamic Catheter

A circumferential pressure probe has been developed that addresses some of
the problems existing catheters have when used to measure pressures inside
various body cavities. This probe is a flexible catheter which permits
discrete measuring segments to be positioned longitudinally along the length
of the catheter according to the function for which it was designed. This
may be a distal segment located at some distance from a series of closely
spaced segments encountered in urethral diagnostic studies or they may be
evenly distributed along a longer system for esophageal motility studies.

 

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Urethral dysfunction and incontinence studies
   * Esophageal motility and diagnostics studies

Benefits

   * Accurate assessment of sphincter competence is obtained quickly
   * Multi-sensors allow simultaneous measurement of pressure profile
   * Sensitive to complete circumferential pressure distribution

The Technology

Cylindrical measuring segments are formed in the shape of a "C". Deformation
of the open side of the segment is caused by external circumferential
pressures. Strain gages at the base of each segment sense the induced
strains caused by the deformation and produce an electrical output
proportional to the circumferential pressures. Interconnecting several
measuring segments with miniature bellows provides needed flexibility and
allows segment spacing to be determined by the application. For urodynamic
studies, five segments are located within a 3.7 cm section and a sixth
sensor is located at the distal end to sense the reference bladder pressure.
For esophageal studies, one might have as many as twenty sensors on a
one-centimeter spacing.

 
Esophageal and Eurodynamic Catheter

Options for Commercialization

NASA seeks industry partners to cooperatively develop commercial products.
This commercialization opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer
Program whose objective is to proactively involve the private sector in
NASA's programs to ensure that the technology developed will have the
maximum commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

