 

Application of Self-Nulling Probe Technology to Nondestructive Evaluation of
Aircraft Structure

Highly reliable, low cost nondestructive evaluation (NDE) methods are in
great demand. This is especially true in the airline industry where the cost
factor is critical while safety is indispensable.

To help the US airline industry enhance its competitiveness NASA Langley
Research Center has developed an innovative electromagnetic NDE probe
technology that meets these conditions. The technology has been licensed to
Krautkramer Branson, Inc. for commercialization and a hand-held
"crackfinder" has already entered the market. Due to its extreme
versatility, the application area of the probe technology extends far beyond
the airline industry, and the personnel of NASA Langley and Krautkramer
Branson are available to provide specialized customer services.

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Corrosion detection
   * Fatigue crack detection
   * Nonconducting coating thickness gauging
   * Characterization of conductive coating quality

Benefits

   * Simple instrumentation: low cost devices
   * No need of user training
   * No need of data interpretation
   * Versatility: broad range of applications

 
Crackfinder being marketed by Krautkramer Branson

The Technology

The NASA Langley-developed electromagnetic probe consists of two coils;
outer (drive) and inner (pickup) coils which are separated by a thin-walled
cylinder, called the magnetic flux-focusing lens, made of ferrous metal. The
lens creates a concentrated eddy current distribution in the test object
immediately underneath of the probe generating a magnetic field that opposes
the original field produced by the drive coil. The lens also prevents the
drive coil-generated flux lines from directly linking the pickup coil
without passing through the test object. When the probe, operating at a
frequency of 50 kHz or above, is placed on a flaw free metallic object its
output is automatically nulled. The presence of a flaw alters the delicate
self-nulling condition causing a distinctive probe output amplitude.

Rotating the probe around the rivet heads of aircraft lap joints, one can
obtain the probe output amplitude as a function of angular position.
Applying simple real-time numerical processing, one can remove the
background noise due to misalignment between the circular probe path and the
rivet head. This rotating probe technique detects fatigue cracks hidden
under the rivet heads.

The probe can detect cracks in welded joints between steel tubes and other
structure. It also has been applied to detect the wall thinning of steel
tubes both from the inside and outside of tube.

Due to the simplicity in design of the probe and associated electronics, an
array of probes can be installed in inaccessible locations for periodic
monitoring of crack growth of critical infrastructures.

Options for Commercialization

Krautkramer Branson has obtained an exclusive license for commercialization
and hand-held "CrackFinders" just entered the market. The next step of
commercialization is to develop a metal thickness gauge and then a
nonconducting coating thickness gauge.

NASA Langley, in cooperation with Krautkramer Branson, can arrange
customized services utilizing the expertise of personnel of a private
company who participated in the development of the probe technologies.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

