 

Compact Laser-Based Gas Sensor

An instrument, based on technology used in NASA atmospheric measurement
programs, has been developed that can detect important
environmental/industrial gases. This portable sensor incorporates tiny
semiconductor lasers developed originally for the communications industry.
Because of its small size and gas measurement versatility, this sensor has
many potential applications.

 

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Gas Leak Detection: A hand-held version of this sensor may be used in
     such environments as chemical processing plants and natural gas pumping
     stations to remotely locate gas leaks
   * Stack Gas Monitoring: Installed on an industrial stack, this sensor
     could make "cross-stack" measurements of important plant emissions
   * Remote Automobile Emissions Measurements: The fast response and high
     sensitivity of this instrument would enable real time automobile
     exhaust measurements

Benefits

   * Performance: The measurement sensitivity and gas selectivity of diode
     laser instrumentation have been proven over two decades of
     research-oriented applications
   * Size: The sensor may be made highly portable since it relies on tiny,
     low power diode lasers
   * Versatility: A variety of gases may be detected by using diode lasers
     operating in different spectral regions

The Technology

The gas sensor consists of a compact laser transceiver that houses a small,
near infrared diode laser as well as a collecting optic and detector. Using
differential absorption techniques, the concentration of a gas may be
determined along the optical path between the transceiver and inexpensive
retroreflecting material commonly found on road signs. By strategically
locating the retroreflecting material, many gas measurement applications are
possible.

Options for Commercialization

NASA Langley seeks industry partners to cooperatively develop commercial
products based on Compact Laser-Based Gas Sensor technology.

This commercial opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer Program.
The objective of this program is to proactively involve the private sector
in NASA's programs to ensure that the technology developed will have maximum
commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

