 

Apparatus for Evaluating the Mechanical Properties of Mammalian Heart
Muscles

A clamping apparatus has been developed that allows mammalian heart muscles
to be mounted in such a way as to neither mechanically or chemically alter
the normal response of the stimulated muscle. This apparatus closely
simulates the physiological conditions of the human body. Once the muscle is
attached, it is electrically stimulated and its response is evaluated
through a number of sensing devices to determine the mechanisms by which
cardiac muscle hypertrophy (growth) takes place.

 

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Clinical Research of muscles or other tissues
   * Research leading to the prevention and treatment of Heart Disease
   * Research leading to the prevention and treatment of High Blood Pressure
   * Evaluation and treatment of Heart Valve Abnormalities
   * Treatments for better Heart Attack Recovery

Benefits

   * Precise and repeatable muscle attachment
   * Helps preserve muscle integrity
   * Allows for accurate measurement
   * Versatile research applications
   * Experimental equipment necessary to clinically relevant problems

The Technology

Mammalian Heart Muscles research focuses on determining the mechanisms by
which cardiac muscle hypertrophy (growth) takes place. When the heart
undergoes pressure overload hypertrophy, it becomes less efficient at
producing mechanical energy, thus reducing its ability to supply the proper
amount of blood to the body necessary for standard bodily functions. In
order to fully investigate this bodily response to an increase in pressure,
the heart muscle must be studied on both a cellular and tissue level. The
process by which the muscle fails is representative of the physiological
conditions seen in people with heart diseases such as high blood pressure,
valve abnormalities and people recovering from heart attack.

The clamping apparatus was jointly developed by NASA LaRC and the Medical
University of South Carolina. A method was developed to investigate the
mechanical properties of mammalian heart muscles. Mammalian heart muscles
are "whole" muscles within the heart that are responsible for the opening
and closing of numerous one-way valves present in the heart. The "whole"
muscles are removed from the heart and placed into the clamping apparatus.

In order to reliably study these muscles, a state of physiological
simulation is accomplished by clamping the muscle in such a manner as to
nearly sever the muscle in half in order to reduce the amount of dead
tissue. The clamp is very light weight so that it does not interfere with
the force reading taken by an ultra-sensitive load cell. Muscle samples are
usually 1 cm long by 4 mm wide.

Options for Commercialization

NASA Langley and the Medical University of South Carolina seek commercial
partners for the joint development of this technology. This technology is
not patent protected by NASA.

This commercial opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Program. The
objective of this program is to proactively involve the private sector in
NASA's programs to ensure that the technology developed will have maximum
commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

