 

Pressure and Temperature Imaging System

A new method has been developed for simultaneous pressure and temperature
imaging on a specially prepared surface with stability and sensitivity at
higher temperatures and with faster response time than previously thought
possible. The new method uses a unique ceramic-dye matrix which glows a
green-red color when exposed to blue light. The brightness and color ratio
of the glowing or luminescent surface are separately functions of pressure
and temperature. Using a technique known as chromatic sensing, the
luminescence is measured and pressure and temperature mappings are
calculated with an image processing computer.

 

 
Potential Commercial Uses

   * Chemical sensing: oxygen sensing/mapping for rugged environments
   * Aerospace diagnostics: use for surface pressure and temperature mapping
     in high temperature and short duration test facilities
   * Transition measurements: use for surface flow measurements where
     highly-polished aerodynamic surfaces are required

Benefits

   * Performance: ceramic-dye matrix enables simultaneous pressure and
     temperature imaging with high temperature stability and fast time
     response
   * Smoothness: ceramic-dye surface may be polished to a glass-smooth
     finish
   * Economy: imaging techniques have proven faster and less expensive than
     conventional instrumentation for high- density surface measurements

The Technology

Pressure and temperature imaging system is based on measurements of induced
luminescence brightness and color ratio from an organic-dye/ceramic matrix
and sensitivity to oxygen quenching and thermal environment. Luminescence
performance is highly dependent on matrix preparation and is stable once the
matrix is set.

At present the ceramic-dye matrix may be prepared by either saturation and
processing of a porous ceramic surface or spray coating with a colloidal
suspension of ceramic power.

This technology has potential application for surface measurements of air
flow or oxygen pressure for very fast response (< 50 msec), relatively high
temperature stability (> 150 deg. C) and intrinsic measurement of both
temperature and pressure. The technique was presented at the AIAA Aerospace
Ground-Testing Conference, June 1994. The technique is being developed for
hypersonic blow-down wind tunnels at NASA Langley Research Center with
slip-cast ceramic test models.

Options for Commercialization

NASA seeks industry partners to cooperatively develop commercial products
based on the simultaneous pressure and temperature imaging system. This
technology is very new and is currently being reviewed for patent
application.

This commercialization opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer
Program. The objective of this program is to proactively involve the private
sector in NASA's programs to ensure that the technology developed will have
maximum commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

