 

Acoustic Flame-Out Detector

The acoustic flame-out detector was developed at NASA Langley Research
Center to prevent explosion in high pressure combustors in the event of
flame-out. The need was to detect a flame-out and deny fuel to the combustor
as quickly as possible. The device must be very reliable and easily
constructed and adjusted.

The acoustic flame-out detector was used for the NASA Langley 8-FT HTT
combustor for over a year with no incidents. The reliability and speed of
the device eliminated the hazard associated with a flame-out and reignition
of methane and oxygen at pressures to 136 atmospheres.

Potential Commercial Uses

   * High pressure or chemical/petroleum reactors
   * High value combustors
   * Fast restart after flame-out essential

Benefits

   * Reliable and fast
   * Construction uses commercially parts
   * Saves equipment, life, and service
   * Pressure detector in fuel line: no special installation needed in
     combustion chamber

 

The Technology

The acoustic flame-out detector was developed to render a large high
pressure combustor safe in the event of a flame-out and reignition. A simple
pressure transducer is placed in the fuel line, and able to detect the
stabilizing flow at the face of the fuel injector. An easily constructed
circuit converts the signal from these vortices to a series of pulses.
Another device counts the pulses and continuously resets itself; if 3 pulses
are missing, then the circuit closes the fuel valve. The fuel is denied and
the combustor may be shut down or restarted. Since the device relies on a
fundamental mechanism that all flames have to exist, changes to the
combustor still enable the detector to function. The device is inherently
fast since it measures a local event that precedes global flame-out. The
flame-out detector can work in any combustor, with any fuel. The user only
needs to measure the oscillations in the fuel line. Simply purchase or
design a filter for the basic flame stability frequency. Then, reset the
circuit for pulses at a time interval of one half of that frequency. The
cost of building in quantity should be modest, and installation is simple.

Options for Commercialization

The technology is part of the NASA Technology Transfer Program. The program
seeks to stimulate development of commercial applications from
NASA-developed technology. The flame-out detector has been tested and used
to render a high pressure combustor safe. One patent is pending, and NASA is
seeking applicants to license the technology and/or partnerships to broaden
and refine the technology.

 

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

