 

Electronically Scanned Multi-Channel Cryogenic Pressure Sensor

NASA has produced a miniature multichannel pressure measurement module. The
unit is 5.5 cm long, 2.5 cm wide and 3 cm high with drift free accuracy. The
instrument will remain fully functional from -195 degrees C (-320 F) to +100
degrees C (212 F) and consists of an array of custom micromachined silicon
sensors. Small tubes connect the instrument to the point at which the
pressure is to be measured. A computer scans each sensor in the array
thousands of times each second to read the pressure.

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Magnetic Resonance Imaging
   * Supercomputing
   * Liquefied Natural Gas Handling
   * Fluid Research

Benefits

   * High Accuracy
   * Extremely Wide Temperature Range
   * Long Term Calibration Stability
   * High Speed Measurements

The Technology

A prototype multichannel pressure transducer module has been designed and
fabricated with materials optimized for reliable performance in the
cryogenic environment. The module has 16 single crystal silicon
piezoresistive pressure sensors electrostatically bonded to a metallized
Pyrex substrate for sensing wind tunnel model pressures. An integral
temperature sensor mounted on each silicon micromachined pressure sensor
senses real-time temperature fluctuations to within 0.1 degree Celsius to
correct for thermally induced non-random sensor drift.

 
Cutaway drawing of single channel silicon sensor

Options for Commercialization

NASA seeks industry partners to cooperatively develop commercial products
based on various Langley held patents for cryogenic multichannel pressure
sensor technology.

This commercial opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer Program.
The objective of this program is to proactively involve the private sector
in NASA's programs to ensure that the technology developed will have maximum
commercial impact.

 
Electrostatic bonding apparatus which includes tube furnace, vacuum pump and
airtight quartz tube with electrical feed-throughs for temperature
monitoring and high voltage source

 
Typical glass substrate with gold circuit and electrostatically bonded
silicon sensors

 
Completed, sensor array with scanning chips mounted on tubing fixture

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

