 

Passive Millimeter Wave Camera

As part of a Technology Reinvestment Project (TRP), TRW and McDonnell
Douglas are leading a consortium which includes the NASA Langley Research
Center, that is developing a sensor that will allow a wide variety of
military and commercial users to overcome the limitations of adverse
weather. Operating in a region of the electromagnetic spectrum that provides
significant advantages over imaging radar and infrared, the Passive
Millimeter Wave Camera (PMMW) projects a tv-like image of the terrain ahead
under various low visibility conditions. Day or night, users will see
through fog, clouds, dust, smoke and sandstorms, extending their operational
limits and avoiding hazards.

 

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Rule the Weather, Rule the Night. The camera will guide military
     aircraft during covert autonomous landing and takeoff, in-flight
     refueling and targeting missions. Armored vehicles will have more
     freedom to maneuver on foggy, dusty, and smoky battlefields.
   * On Time, Safely. Socked-in airports will no longer deter commercial
     airliners and parcel carriers. Ships will navigate foggy harbors and
     channels. Rescue vehicles will be able to operate in dense fog and
     smoke.

Benefits

   * Enhanced Industrial Base. Sales projections indicate a market value of
     $900 million over the next 10 years.
   * Improved Airline Operations and Safety. It will reduce delays and
     canceled flights due to adverse weather, increase operational safety by
     detecting runway obstacles, and result in significant fuel savings and
     reduced air pollution.
   * Enhanced Military Operations. It will provide covert navigation and
     surveillance imaging through fog, smoke, and sandstorms.

The Technology

The camera operates very much like a television camera except that it
operates at mm-wave frequencies (near 90 GHz) instead of in the visible
spectrum. It has components analogous to a television camera: optics to
focus the image, a readout device to convert the electromagnetic energy into
electrical signals, signal processing electronics to prepare the signals for
display, and display unit to view the scene. The optical system images the
blackbody radiation emanating from the scene on the Focal Plane Array (FPA),
which consists of an array of small antennas, each coupled to a very small
MMIC W-band (90 GHz) direct-detection receiver. It is this large array of
independent receiver channels that enables a camera frame rate high enough
to support the stressing aircraft landing task. Each receiver output is
processed by electronics on the FPA and the outputs combined into a simple
digital output stream. The signal processor enhances the detected image and
conditions it for display. The camera has automatic calibration of the
sensor. It will be packaged to accommodate all requisite aircraft thermal,
electrical, and mechanical interfaces.

Options for Commercialization

Commercialization of the PMMW camera will be synchronized to the user
community's evolving requirement definition. The industry is establishing
enhanced/synthetic vision system requirement specifications and preparing
for FAA certification. Participating in that system definition will allow
the incorporation of the appropriate operational capabilities and interfaces
in the preproduction prototype camera product. This is compatible with the
industry's certification effort, scheduled to complete in 3 years.

This commercialization opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer
Program. The objective of this program is to proactively involve the private
sector in NASA's programs to ensure that the technology developed will have
maximum commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

