 

Miniature Electronic Temperature Controller

A miniature electronic temperature controller was developed at NASA Langley
Research Center to provide a constant temperature environment for
transducers and electronics in the flaps and slats of a Boeing 737 aircraft.
New packaging technology has allowed NASA Langley to build a miniature
controller that can be mounted almost anywhere. The controller also provides
a temperature monitor signal allowing the user to verify the equipment is
controlled at the selected temperature.

 
Miniature Electronic Temperature Controller

 
Controller Installed on Pressure Array System

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Temperature sensitive electronics and transducers
   * Limited volume applications
   * Aviation and industrial applications
   * Automatic temperature control in unmanned sites
   * Laboratory or medical uses where precise temperature control is a
     requirement

Benefits

   * Improves measurement accuracy
   * Allows use of commercial grade sensors versus more expensive MIL-STD
     units
   * Simplifies data reduction
   * Provides temperature monitoring capability.

The Technology

This miniature control system provides a stable temperature environment
using a single printed circuit board 38.1mm x 31.75mm x 6.35mm. This is
accomplished using surface-mounted components powered by an integral series
regulator which provides 5V DC for the electronics. The primary power for
the heater is 28V DC but the system can be easily modified to operate at
other voltages. A comparator circuit maintains the set-point accuracy of the
system to +/-1 deg. F. The set-point of the system is programmable. The
possibility of transient electronic interference signals is avoided by the
use of a "soft" turn-on/turn-off circuit. A buffer amplifier provides an
output temperature signal for monitoring purposes. A resistance temperature
detector (RTD) is used to sense the temperature at the point of measurement.
Maximum heater control current is 5 amps. The controller has been thermally
tested from -40 deg. F to 140 deg. F and at vibration levels of 8g sine from
5Hz to 2000Hz, 30 minutes per axis. These controllers are currently flying
on NASA B-737, OV-10 and F-18 aircraft.

Options for Commercialization

NASA seeks to disseminate information to industry for the commercial
development of products based on miniature electronic temperature controller
technology. This technology is not patent protected by NASA.

This commercial opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer Program.
The objective of this program is to proactively involve the private sector
in NASA's programs to ensure that the technology developed will have maximum
commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

