 

Autonomous Landing and Guidance System

The ALG technical approach provides for the design, development, simulation,
and testing of the prototype system during a 2-year Base Program. It will
demonstrate that the civil/military operational requirements can be met, and
that the system could be approved for in-service use under current
regulations.

 

Potential Commercial Uses

This system will offer a low cost, high payoff solution to several major
problems in commercial and military air transportation:

   * Commercial airline industry - weather and related aircraft capacity
     problems cause 24,000 commercial flight delays.
   * Military operations - enabling strategic decisions based upon tactics,
     not weather or visibility conditions.

 

Benefits

The ALG Alliance is unique, consisting of customers, government researchers
and industry, formed to deliver a spin-off product that will yield the
following compelling benefits to the U. S. economy:

   * Creates tens of thousands of new long-term aerospace engineering and
     manufacturing jobs across the country
   * Sustains vital U. S. defense technology base
   * Increases revenue returns to the U. S. Treasury [~$441 million per
     year]
   * Enhances U. S. military capabilities, both global and domestic
   * Improves U. S. national security, productivity and economy
   * Decreases U. S. airline flight delays, diversions, revenue losses;
     enhances flight safety
   * Extends U. S. airport runway accessibility, capacity and throughput -
     without infrastructure investment
   * Expands U. S. airline passenger productivity [$700-800 million per
     year]
   * Increases U. S. airline revenues  
   * Improves U. S. airline passenger satisfaction and global
     competitiveness

The Technology

Our technical objective is to demonstrate a prototype system that will meet
FAA and DoD approval for operations in low-visibility conditions within 2
years. This will be accomplished through test flights within 18-24 months.
The ALG system is a spin-off and integration of existing defense
technologies: a Global Positioning System (GPS) to arrive at decision
heights, a proven Millimeter Wave Imaging Radar (MMWR) to see through clouds
and fog, and a Forward-Looking Infrared (FLIR) System to augment landing,
takeoff and ground operations in low-visibility conditions.

Aircraft approaches the runway using onboard navigation. The pilot makes a
landing decision by seeing the runway, landmarks and other objects on the
head-up display, which overlays his actual window view. ALG sensors have
demonstrated the ability to image the runway from sufficient altitudes to
continue landing even in the densest fog. The pilot can see the runway, and
thus continues the approach to landing. Low-visibility takeoffs are also
facilitated by ALG. This system would allow military and commercial pilots
the ability to operate and to avoid runway incursions in low-visibility
conditions.

Options for Commercialization

The ALG Alliance Business Plan is a three-step effort to continue ALG
development through the Alliance's commitment of resources and bring ALG to
the marketplace within 3 years through continued industry investment,
customer interest, and TRP funding for the first 5 years of development.

This technology will give U. S. suppliers a definitive edge in the
marketplace, but the beleaguered U. S. aerospace, defense, and airline
industries do not have the funds to spin it off at this critical time. It
must be a national priority to protect the U. S. technology lead and
development investment in this vital field.

This commercialization opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer
Program. The objective of this program is to proactively involve the private
sector in NASA's programs to ensure that the technology developed will have
maximum commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

