 

Advanced Diagnostic Tool for Transition Detection

A non-intrusive thin film technology has been developed to detect boundary
layer transition in a variety of flow conditions. These sensor arrays, when
operated in conjunction with an anemometer and a data acquisition system,
allow the user to determine transition location in an accurate and timely
manner. The sensors are applicable to any non-conductive fluid flow
environment and function over a wide range of temperatures (-175C to 200C).
This technology can potentially be expanded to include a number of
commercial applications, including: a drag diagnostic tool for the
automobile/boating industry, temperature measurements, and calibration
devices.

 
Photo of NACA-0012 airfoil model with aluminum insert and direct deposited
sensor array

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Pre-stall warning devices for general aviation
   * Drag diagnostic tool for auto/boating industries
   * Calibrated temperature measurement devices
   * Localized heating of a surface or fluid in contact with a surface

 
Photo of constant temperature anemometer and data acquisition system

Benefits

   * A non-intrusive method to detect boundary layer transition
   * Accurate and timely method for detecting boundary-layer transition
   * Use in any non-conductive fluid environment
   * Wide range of operating temperatures (-175C to 200C)

The Technology

The need for developing a non-intrusive diagnostic tool to detect boundary
layer transition is well established. Conventional techniques presently do
not offer an adequate means of measuring transition location under various
conditions. The key components of the thin film technology are the
dielectric coating layer and the data acquisition system. The dielectric
layer isolates the thin film sensor from the metal model surface and is also
capable of handling a wide range of temperatures.

There are two types of sensor arrays, direct deposited and adhesive bonded
sensor arrays. These arrays are made using polyimide based materials and
various metals for the sensor and thin film leads. Both types of arrays can
be used with either constant temperature or constant voltage anemometers.
The data acquisition system is capable of measuring sensor resistance,
plotting AC/DC signals versus sensor position, providing both time code and
filtered data for recording devices. The plot of AC/DC signals versus sensor
position provides an easy manner to interpret indication of laminar,
transitional, and turbulent regions on the model.

 
Photo of 3D cone model

Options for Commercialization

This Technology Opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer Program.
Multiple patents have been filed on this technology. NASA is actively
seeking applicants to license and/or form partnerships to further refine
this technology for commercialization. NASA is interested in jointly
investigating the suitability of this technology to specific industry needs.

 
Photo of CFD validation model with adhesive bonded sensor array

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

