 

Automatic Force Balance Calibration System

A more efficient method to calibrate a force balance has been developed
using a six-component force transducer to measure the aerodynamic forces and
moments on wind tunnel models. This new calibration technique calibrates a
test balance directly against a high-precision reference balance.

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Production costs may prove to be low enough to enable most wind tunnel
     sites to have a system for on-site balance calibration

   * A portable version could be used in the wind tunnel test section to
     apply check loads to the balance for system check-out or for
     determining sting deflections

Benefits

   * It can be easily automated for efficiency

   * Calibration hardware requirements (adapters) for each balance are
     minimal

   * The need for precise deformation measurements and alignments are
     eliminated

   * There are no extraneous tare loads introduced by the calibration
     equipment

   * Ability to apply any load or load combination with equal facility

   * The full system for small balances can be small enough to be portable

   * A fully automated system will be much less expensive than current
     commercially available systems

The Technology

Currently accepted calibration procedures using precision weights requires
that the six components, the three orthogonal forces and moments, be
calibrated with single loads in each axis as well as in combinations of two
components loaded simultaneously to adequately define the force balance
output. The force balance output is then used to determine the calibration
matrix. This method has been and is still considered to be the standard
against which all other calibration methods are compared. This calibration
method is a difficult and time consuming task. (100 work-hours +).

Three existing calibration systems are shown in these photographs as
examples of automatic calibration systems. These systems are efficient
(approx. 8 work-hours) but are large, complex, and expensive. Insuring that
the applied calibration loads are accurate and orthogonal is a difficult
task.

The new automatic force calibration system developed will be able to provide
the capability to calibrate balances with widely variable load ranges and to
make and calibrate reference balances to the desired accuracy to qualify as
a standard. Accurate force balance calibrations will be obtained with this
new technology at minimum costs.

Options for Commercialization

NASA Langley is actively seeking applicants to license the technology and/or
partnerships to further broaden and refine the technology.

This commercial opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer Program.
The objective of this program is to proactively involve the private sector
in NASA's programs to ensure that the technology developed will have maximum
commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

