 

Cryogenic Pressure Sensors For High Vibration/ Shock Environments

A multichannel cryogenic pressure sensor capable of measuring pressures as
high as 6,000 psi in hostile oxygen and hydrogen environments at
temperatures as low as -261 deg. C and as high as 100 deg. C and shocks to
400 g's has been developed.

 

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Cryogenic gas level gauging and transfer monitoring
   * Space Shuttle Main Engine
   * Rocket engines
   * Cryogenic wind tunnels
   * High vibration and shock applications
   * Industrial cooling
   * Particle physics
   * Cryogenic gas production

Benefits

   * Operational in high vibration and shock environment - significant
     improvement over commercially available sensors (80 g's from 25 Hz to
     2,000 Hz)
   * Can withstand shocks to 400 g's
   * Compatible with most of the gases
   * Compatible with liquid hydrogen and liquid oxygen
   * Frequency bandwidth: 0 - 2,000 Hz
   * Operational in high vibration and shock environment - significant
     improvement over commercially available sensors (80 g's from 25 Hz to
     2,000 Hz)
   * Can withstand shocks to 400 g's
   * Compatible with most of the gases
   * Compatible with liquid hydrogen and liquid oxygen
   * Frequency bandwidth: 0 - 2,000 Hz

The Technology

Currently employed pressure sensor units for the Space Shuttle Main Engine
(SSME) have a dual-channel strain gage Wheatstone bridge bonded on a
metallic diaphragm that is exposed to the pressure media of rocket engine
fuel. These strain gage pressure sensor units have their operational
temperature range from -65 deg. C to +165 deg. C, which is well over 100
deg. C above the temperature of liquid hydrogen and oxygen.

The three most important areas in developing a cryogenic multichannel
pressure sensor unit are: silicon pressure sensor dice, cryogenic compatible
packaging of the pressure units, and signal conditioning circuits which are
integrated within the unit or attached next to the pressure sensor dice. The
silicon pressure sensor dice used have their diffused impurity density in
the range of 5x10^19 to 2x10^20 atoms per cubic centimeter, to avoid
unpredictable variations of the sensor's offset voltage and sensitivity due
to charge carrier freeze-out of the sensors at temperatures below -100 deg.
C.

Two remaining areas, namely cryogenically compatible packaging and
electronic circuits, were investigated with primary emphasis on packaging of
a cryogenic pressure sensor unit. These developed cryogenic pressure
transducers were installed on the Technology Test Bed Engine at Marshal
Space Flight Center. Previous cryogenic transducers have exhibited a severe
drift at stable cryogenic temperature. These developed cryogenic transducers
exhibited no drift during the TTB-048 test firing. All 12 sensors in the 3
installed transducers followed the test profile very closely.

Options for Commercialization

NASA seeks industry partners to cooperatively develop commercial products
based on cryogenic pressure sensor technology.

This commercialization opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer
Program. The objective of this program is to proactively involve the private
sector in NASA's program to ensure that the technology developed will have
maximum commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

