 

Technique for Obtaining 3-D Laminography Images of Structures from Reverse
Geometry X-Rays

Motionless 3-D imaging of materials and structures for improved
characterization and inspection has been realized with reverse geometry
x-rays. This method enables more rapid 3-D inspections of structures than
conventional techniques.

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Electronics circuit board inspections
   * Composite structure characterization
   * Inspection of limited access structures such as:
        o Aircraft
        o Power Plants
        o Bridges

Benefits

   * Performance: Rapid 3-dimensional cross sectioning of structure or
     material for characterization or defect detection

   * Key Features: Imaging performed without mechanical movement of either
     the detector or the source as is required by conventional systems

The Technology

Digiray's Reverse Geometry X-Ray(TM) system uses a unique electronically
scanned x-ray source for radiographic imaging of materials and structures.
By scanning the x-ray source, multiple detectors can be used to obtain 3-D
laminographic images of a structure.

Researchers at NASA Langley have developed algorithms for reducing the data
from the multiple detectors to 3-D information about the structure. This 3-D
information can either be viewed or analyzed to give a 3-D characterization
of the structure and determine the location of defects in the structure in a
much more cost-effective manner than with conventional x-ray tomography.
These algorithms have been transferred to Digiray and incorporated into a
commercially available system.

In addition, a recent improvement, made possible by the NASA SBIR Program,
has been an increase in the energy of the x-rays. The higher energy x-rays
are able to penetrate through thicker materials as well as materials of
interest for aerospace applications such as turbine blades.

Options for Commercialization

NASA Langley seeks industrial partners to cooperatively investigate new
applications for the motionless laminography system. Digiray Corporation
currently owns the patents for and manufactures the Reverse Geometry
X-Ray(TM) System. In collaboration with Digiray, NASA has been developing
analysis techniques for quantification of materials and structural
properties.

NASA Langley is currently seeking other applications for this technology as
part of the NASA Technology Transfer Program. The objective of this program
is to proactively involve the private sector in NASA's programs to ensure
that the technology will have maximum commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

