 

Ice Thickness Gauge

An ice thickness gage has been developed to measure the buildup of ice over
the detector. This gage allows aircraft and other structures to monitor the
ice accumulation, and in some cases, to initiate de-icing.

 

Potential Commercial Uses

Monitor (and for some cases, initiate de-icing) of:

   * Aircraft, ground vehicles and ships
   * Buildings, towers, power lines, and ground locations
   * Water lines, freezer compartments, cooling coils

Benefits

   * Allows de-icing of structures before they become unsafe
   * Gages can be retrofit on exterior of aircraft or other structures
   * Technology is low cost and simple to produce

The Technology

The gage consists of a combination of a temperature measuring sensor and two
or more capacitance measuring sensors, along with electronic circuits that
combine information from the components to determine the presence of ice and
its thickness.

Ice on a surface strongly affects capacitance between a pair of conductors
embedded near the surface. Capacitance levels off as ice thickness becomes
larger than the separation of the conductors. The capacitance ratio between
two pairs of conductors with greatly different spacing depends only on ice
thickness--the effects of temperature and composition are removed. The
capacitance ratio indicates ice thickness if the two sets of conductors are
spaced so that thickness is larger than the spacing in one set of
conductors, but smaller than the spacing in the other set of conductors. If
a wide range of thickness' need to be monitored, a range of spacing can be
used in several sets of conductors.

Options for Commercialization

Innovative Dynamics, Inc. of Ithaca, NY has been granted a limited
non-exclusive license to use the ice thickness gage for aircraft ice
detection, and de-icing system. However, the patent is available for other
non-exclusive licenses for aircraft use, and either non-exclusive or
exclusive licenses for non-aircraft use.

This commercialization opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer
Program. The objective of this program is to pro actively involve the
private sector in NASA's programs to ensure that the technology developed
will have maximum commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

