 

Low Cost, High Speed Signal Processing for Ultrasonic, Medical, and other
applications

NASA has developed a new technique to process data using a combination of
hardware and software to provide a flexible and low cost method of high
speed signal processing for a wide variety of applications. The Convolver
for Real-time Image and Signal Processing or CRISP is a means of filtering a
signal to extract information hidden by noise or system artifacts. Its
objective is to provide repeatable and accurate measurements. This may be
used to normalize signals from low cost unmatched sensors, or achieve higher
performance by lowering system noise. Speed, accuracy and lower cost were
primary goals in developing CRISP. These factors resulted in a Digital
Signal Processing (DSP) board and software system that is currently being
developed on a PC platform, but due to its modular architecture can be
easily modified to support virtually any platform, even stand alone
applications.

 

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Radar : Normalize antennas and receivers, signature analysis, removing
     modulation and receiver noise, autocorrelation , etc.
   * Medical : Sharpen images and extract weak signals
   * Ultrasonic : Transducer standardization, range resolution
   * Composites : Delaminations, impact damage
   * Miscellaneous : Audio enhancement, Cable fault detection, High
     Temperature NDE

Benefits

   * Superior speed improvements, exceeding 3 orders of magnitude, make
     CRISP a desirable alternative to software analysis alone. May be used
     in embedded systems for real time analysis of a wide variety of signals
   * A low cost PC based (386 or higher) DSP board which can complement
     testing and measuring (often expensive) systems commonly found in labs,
     anachoic chambers, scanning facilities, etc.
   * Modular system architecture permits CRISP to be modified for a wide
     variety of platforms. Any changes to the CRISP I/O has no effect on the
     computational engine which provides fast response and minimum cost for
     customizing

The Technology

CRISP is a filter which uses a minimum error technique to map a sampled
waveform to a desired quantitative waveform. A software-only implementation
can take up to 50 hours for a typical 2 hour scan. One objective of CRISP is
to move this process into real time while minimizing any loss of dynamic
range.

CRISP may be used in dedicated systems or it may be configured , via
software , as a stand alone board. In this way CRISP may be used off line to
enhance software analysis. CRISP also contains a software package for filter
generation and general board operations.

Computational throughput and mathematical models of CRISP signal processing
performance are complete. System timing and protocol have been specified and
are currently under design. Prototyping of some modules has been completed.

Options for Commercialization

NASA seeks industrial partners to cooperatively investigate new applications
for the CRISP technology. NASA Langley currently has a Joint Development
Agreement (JDA) for CRISP technology with two companies in NDE. The design
of the DSP board is currently in progress. Many options were added to
accommodate a wide variety of systems.

Currently no JDA has been establish in using CRISP in the radar, medical or
many other fields. NASA is seeking interested company(s) that can transfer
this technology to these areas as part of the NASA Technology Transfer
Program.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

