 

Thermal Bond Inspection System

The Thermal Bond Inspection System (TBIS) uses thermal energy and infrared
imaging to characterize the state of a bonded structure. A small amount of
heat is applied to the surface of the structure, and the surface temperature
is then recorded using an infrared camera and image processor. Various data
analysis methods can then be performed to transform the temperature images
into images representative of physical features of the measured structure.

 

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Defect detection in bonded aluminum structures
   * Defect determination in laminated structures (i.e. laminated furniture)
   * Defect detection in composites (i.e. graphite/ epoxy, fiberglass,
     kevlar, etc.)
   * Thickness characterization in metal structures (i.e. corrosion
     characterization)
   * Defect detection in electronic circuits and circuits boards
   * Process control and monitoring for fabrication of composites
   * Paint thickness and bond quality characterization

Benefits

   * Completely non invasive and non-contacting
   * Geometry insensitive
   * Rapid response
   * Can examine a large area
   * Can be applied to a large number of materials and geometries

The Technology

The figure shows a block diagram of a typical TBIS setup. An inspection
consists of the application of heat to the surface of a structure (in this
case an aircraft) and subsequent measurement of the surface temperature as a
function of time. By heating a sample, a temperature differential is created
in regions with differing heat capacities. In disbonded or corroded regions,
the heat flow is reduced. This reduction of heat flow is reflected in an
increase in temperature over the corroded region due to reduction in
thickness relative to the uncorroded regions.

The surface temperature as a function of time is measured with an infrared
imager. The imager converts the infrared radiation (thermal response) from
the surface of the sample to a video signal which is digitized by an image
processor that performs a real time average of the digitized images. The
real time averaging of these images significantly increases the signal to
noise ratio of the data. Averaged images are obtained for a given time
series as determined by the microcomputer controller. The current system
allows for both immediate reduction of the data and storage of the data for
further analysis.

An important feature of the system for quantitative measurements is a
microcomputer which synchronizes the data acquisition with the application
of heat. Without this synchronization it is difficult to interpret the
resulting images obtained and impossible to obtain quantitative results.

Options for Commercialization

This technology opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer Program.
The program seeks to stimulate development of commercial applications from
NASA-developed technology. A procedure for thermal inspection has been
developed and tested extensively. A patent has been issued, and NASA Langley
is seeking licensees. Suitability of this technology to specific needs can
be investigated at NASA Langley.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

