 

High Performance Polymers and Composites

High performance polymers and composites developed and fabricated at NASA
Langley Research Center (LaRC) present significant advances in the field of
polymer science and engineering. As neat resins, the polymers exhibit
excellent mechanical properties at elevated temperatures: good solvent
resistance, excellent processability and outstanding toughness. These
polymers can be used in a variety of applications including hot melt
adhesives, mechanical parts, binders, atomic oxygen resistant coatings,
fibers, and as high performance matrix resins in advanced composites.

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Electronics/Optics: Protective coatings, flexible multilayer circuit
     boards, thin film adhesives, optical fiber and sensor coating, flat
     panel displays, reflective surfaces

   * Aerospace: Atomic oxygen resistant coatings, hot melt adhesives,
     advanced fiber-reinforced composites, wire and cable coatings,
     honeycomb structures, radomes, space structures, primary/secondary
     aircraft structures

   * Mechanical Parts: Bearings, gears, self-lubricating washers and rings,
     valves, thrust washers, shaft seals, gaskets, motor and pump housing

   * Textiles: High strength fibers, chemically resistant coatings, flame
     resistant materials, lightweight protective armor

   * Medical/Health: Lightweight supports, prosthetics, reusable,
     autoclaveable medical plastics

Benefits

   * Lightweight/high strength complex composite structures can be cost
     effectively constructed, replacing heavy traditional materials

   * Parts can be both integrated into or eliminated from a structure using
     advanced composites, saving overall fabrication time, machining, and
     total parts count

   * Resins can be compression molded, extruded, and/or machined to afford
     strong, high precision mechanical parts

   * As thermally stable electronic coatings and films, these polymers can
     be used in the fabrication of dense and/or flexible electronic
     components and parts

The Technology

Polymer Chemistry - There are two primary classes of polymers:
thermoplastics and thermosets. The thermoplastics (i.e. polyethylene,
polyesters, polyimides) can be thermally reformed into additional shapes.
The thermosets (i.e. epoxies, phenolics, polyurethanes) are cured to a
specific shape and cannot be thermally reformed without destroying the
resin. Each system offers advantages and disadvantages.

Several new NASA Langley thermoplastic polyimides are commercially available
or can be licensed. These include LaRC(TM)-IA, IAX, ITPI, SI, 8515, and
PAEBI-AOR. Each of these thermoplastic resins can be used in many if not all
of the following applications: thin films, coating, molded parts, adhesive
films and tapes, fibers, binders, advanced composites, electrical parts,
melt or solution spun fibers, foams, and reflective surface.

Also available are several new thermosetting resins which are also either
commercially available or can be licensed. These include LaRC(TM) RP-46
(winner of the 1992 R & D 100 award), and PETI-1, 2, 4 and 5. These
thermosetting resins can be used in many if not all of the following
applications: thin films, adhesive films and cloth, advanced composite
structures, and molded parts.

As polymer technology advances, so must fabrication technology. NASA Langley
has developed several novel manufacturing processes to develop advanced
composite structures with greater speed and at lower cost. These include dry
fiber coating, ribbonizing, high solids film impregnation, expansion
molding, and advanced/automated tow placement. These processes can also be
easily integrated into standard manufacturing systems, including compression
molding and autoclaving.

Options for Commercialization

NASA seeks industrial partnerships to cooperatively develop commercial
products based on polymer technology and fabrication processes. NASA
currently holds a variety of patents on revolutionary polymers and
manufacturing technologies which are available for prototype fabrication and
process development.

These commercialization/technological development opportunities are part of
the NASA Technology Transfer Program. The objective of this program is to
proactively involve the private sector in NASA's programs to ensure that the
technology developed will have maximum commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

