 

High Temperature Polyimide; LaRC(TM) RP 46

LaRC(TM) RP 46 polyimides were developed for the purpose of replacing
PMR-15, which is the most widely used high temperature matrix resin, but
contains a chemical that is carcinogenic. Non-toxic LaRC(TM) RP 46 not only
meets or improves upon all the mechanical properties of PMR-15, but it also
features significantly improved processing characteristics, such as
increased resin flow. In addition, the cost of RP 46 is comparable to that
of PMR-15.

 

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Advanced composites for aircraft
   * Automotive engine components
   * Printed circuit boards
   * Adhesives
   * Foams
   * Resin molded hardware
   * Thin films

Benefits

   * Inexpensive
   * Easy to use
   * Non-toxic

The Technology

LaRC(TM) RP 46 polyimides are formulated by replacing the toxic component
component of PMR-15 with a novel material. LaRC(TM) RP 46 composites are
easy to process by numerous conventional processing techniques, including
autoclave processing, compressive molding, powder towpregging, solution
frame winding/filament winding, stamping, and resin flow molding. The
composite materials produced are consistently high quality with excellent
thermal and mechanical properties. It is the most cost-effective ultra-high
temperature matrix resin in today's marketplace.

Options for Commercialization

NASA holds a patent on LaRC RP46, entitled "Low Toxicity High Temperature
PMR Polyimide," U.S. Patent #5,171,822, which is immediately available for
licensing. NASA also seeks industrial partners to cooperatively develop
commercial products and processes based on the LaRC(TM) RP 46 invention.

This commercial opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer Program.
The objective of this program is to proactively involve the private sector
in NASA's research programs to ensure that the technology developed will
have maximum commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

