 

Gas Permeable Polymeric Materials

The processing of plastics in space could enable manufacture of new, highly
specialized materials impossible to prepare on earth. Recent flight
experiments have shown that new and otherwise unobtainable polymer products
with characteristics designed to meet special requirements could be
obtained. The development of new space produced contact lens and other
materials could lead to market production demands which could only be met
using a space based facility such as the Space Station.

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Instrumentation for Measurement of Gas Permeability
   * Gas Analysis Instrumentation
   * Selective Gas Sampling Devices
   * Control and Monitor Spacecraft Atmosphere
   * Extended Wear Contact Lenses
   * Contact Lenses for Astronauts and Pilots
   * Manufacturing and Process Control
   * Food and Beverage Production and Processing
   * Dialysis and Blood Gas Monitoring

Benefits

   * Newer and More Highly Specialized Plastic Materials may be Formed in
     Space.
   * More Homogeneous Plastic Materials are Formed in Space.
   * Lighter Materials may be Formed in Microgravity.
   * Higher Gas Permselectivity for Materials Processed in Microgravity.

 
Gas Selective Materials: Specific gases will pass through a gas selective
permeable material while all others are excluded.

The Technology

The Gas Permeable Polymeric Materials (GPPM) flight experiment is a NASA
payload developed under the Office of Advanced Concepts and Technology
(OACT) with industrial participation in conducting the experiment and in
post flight analysis and publication of the results. The objective of the
experiment is to determine the effect of microgravity on the composition and
physical characteristics of highly crossed-linked polymers. It is expected
that polymers that are homogeneous in molecular composition and density will
result, and these may lead to the development of new polymers that have very
high permeability for specific gases. These polymers cannot be successfully
formed in 1-G due to gravitational effects that occur during the
polymerization process. These effects cannot be removed by annealing or
other treatment of the polymerized material, hence, the only means to verify
any material enhancement is to conduct an experiment in reduced gravity with
a duration sufficient to assure complete polymerization. For the materials
studied, a minimum of 72 continuous hours in reduced gravity is required.

 

Options for Commercialization

NASA seeks industry partners to cooperatively develop commercial products
based on Gas Permeable Materials technology under a space act agreement.
NASA has no patent coverage in this area at this time, therefore there are
no associated royalty fees to commercialize this technology.

This commercialization opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer
Program. The objective of this program is to proactively involve the private
sector in NASA's programs to ensure that the technology developed will have
maximum commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

