 

Shape Memory Alloy

Design, Fabrication, and Testing of an SMA Actuator

Shape memory alloys (SMAs) are a special class of adaptive materials that
can convert thermal energy directly into mechanical work. The shape memory
effect occurs when the alloy is mechanically deformed at low temperatures
then, when heated above a critical transition temperature, results in the
restoration of the original "memory" shape of the specimen.

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Couplers: pipe couplings, electric connectors, package clamps
   * Temperature control devices: air conditioning controllers, shower head
     scald protection, overheat monitors, fire control safety valves and
     releases, radiator fan clutches, gas shut-off valves, water sprinklers
   * Medical Devices: Orthodontic wire (braces), orthopedic implants,
     Harrington rods, aneurysm clips, dental drill bit regulator, prosthetic
     limbs, steerable catheters, surgical anchors, clot filters
   * Separation mechanisms: manipulator release, buoy or tether release,
     ballast system release, launch-locking, payload jettison, protective
     shielding detachment, quick connect/ disconnect joints, ejection seats,
     fin lock/unlock release
   * Miscellaneous: heat engines, mechanical muscles (robotics), toys,
     eyeglass frames, brassiere wire, connectors, fog lamp louvers, latching
     devices, motor protectors, valves, circuit breakers, retractable
     headlights

 
Electrically driven technology demonstration actuator

Benefits

   * Performance: High strength, biocompatibility, high recovery force, and
     excellent resistance to corrosion and fatigue make memory metal
     suitable for a wide range of applications. This unique material will
     function in water and in other liquids, in a vacuum, and in most
     hazardous environments. Actual units can be non-destructively tested
     after installation.
   * Key Features: Due to a high force output per unit volume the use of
     shape memory wire as a replacement to conventional actuator systems can
     lead to smaller and lighter-weight mechanisms.
   * Fabrication: Shape memory alloys are available in a wide variety of
     forms including wire, plate/sheet, bar/rod, tube, and thin film.

The Technology

As a result of a one year in house research project, researchers at NASA
Langley achieved a fundamental understanding of Nickel Titanium shape memory
alloy behavior. The effort included developing an in-house capability to
instill memory in NiTi wire and the design, fabrication, and automated
testing of an electrically driven technology demonstration actuator.
Preliminary characterization to verify analytically predicted displacement,
force and actuation speed at room temperature was also performed.

Options for Commercialization

NASA seeks industry partners to cooperatively develop commercial products
based on technology under a space act agreement. NASA currently has no
patent coverage in this area, therefore there are no associated royalty fees
to commercialize this technology.

This commercialization opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer
Program. The objective of this program is to proactively involve the private
sector in NASA programs to ensure that the technology will have maximum
commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

