 

High Performance Composites: Novel Resins and Processing Techniques

Novel resin systems with applications in high performance composite
materials have been, and are currently being, developed. Feasible processes
to produce quality prepreg, towpreg, ribbon, and ultimately cured composite
parts from these advanced materials have also been developed.

 
NASA LaRC Powder Coating Line

Potential Commercial Uses

Cost effective development of lightweight, high temperature composites

Benefits

   * Resin Systems: Large processing windows, no solvent evolution while
     curing, high glass transition temperatures, excellent solvent
     resistance, high mechanical properties, thermoset and thermoplastic
     systems
   * Processes:
        o Powder Prepregging: Cost effective, fast production rates,
          inherent absence of solvents, versatility to utilize any resin
          powder and many types of fibers
        o Ribbonizing: Cost effective process for manufacturing built-up,
          complex composite parts

 
Schematic of NASA LaRC Ribbonizing Line

The Technology

Several polyimide resins have been developed that offer large processing
windows, no solvent evolution while curing, high glass transition
temperatures, excellent solvent resistance, and high mechanical properties.

Processing of these novel resin systems has been accomplished by utilizing
polymer solutions with the NASA multipurpose prepreg machine as well as
utilizing dry powders with the NASA powder curtain towpreg line. Production
of quality ribbon from these materials has been accomplished utilizing the
NASA ribbonizer.

Options for Commercialization

NASA seeks industry partners to scale-up patented resin systems and
processes for commercial production. NASA currently holds patents on these
resins and processes (Powder Curtain Process and Ribbonizer) which are
available for licensing.

This commercialization opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer
Program. The objective of this program is to proactively involve the private
sector in NASA's programs to ensure that the technology developed will have
maximum commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

