 

RAINBOW Piezoceramics - High Displacement Actuator Materials

A new class of piezoelectric ceramics with improved performance
characteristics has been developed. These materials, called RAINBOWs
(Reduced and Internally Biased Oxide Wafer), offer both high displacement
and moderate force capabilities.

 

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Transducers: loudspeakers, tweeters, microphones, tone generators
   * Ultrasonic Generators: ultrasonic cleaners, sonar, ultrasonic welding,
     pest control devices
   * Sensors: pressure sensors, accelerometers
   * High-Voltage Generators: gas igniters, spark pumps, impact fuses
   * Optics: adaptive optics, variable-focus lens and mirror assemblies
   * Miscellaneous: solid-state fluid transfer pumps, actuators,
     positioners, motors, fans, printers

Benefits

   * Performance: RAINBOW ceramics exhibit increased displacement (i.e.
     strain) over conventional piezoceramics while under moderate loads
   * Key Features: RAINBOW ceramics enable reduction of the size and power
     requirements for conventional actuator systems
   * Fabrication: RAINBOW wafers have been fabricated in a wide variety of
     sizes, ranging from 0.5 to 4 inches in diameter

The Technology

Piezoelectricity is a phenomenon observed in a select group of ceramic
materials. These materials generate mechanical movement in the presence of
an electrical field. They also generate an electrical charge in response to
mechanical stress.

Researchers at Clemson University, NASA Langley Research Center, and Aura
Ceramics have developed a new processing method for producing piezoelectric
ceramics. This technique produces a ceramic wafer which is capable of very
high axial displacements (500 µm) under moderate loads (85 psi). In
addition, multiple wafers can be stacked together to amplify linear
displacements. The use of RAINBOWs in this manner reduces the size of an
actuator stack required to achieve unusually high displacements.

Options for Commercialization

NASA seeks industry partners to cooperatively develop commercial products
based on the RAINBOW piezoceramic technology. Aura Ceramics, Inc. is the
exclusive licensee to the manufacturing rights for RAINBOW hardware.

For further information concerning RAINBOW piezoelectric materials, please
contact:

Andrew Melcher
Aura Ceramics
5121 Winnetka Avenue North
Minneapolis, MN 55428
Phone: 612-535-9660, ext. 101
Fax: 612-535-9655

Aura Ceramics can supply any sales information, engineering properties, or
materials characterization figures.

This commercialization opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer
Program. The objective of this program is to proactively involve the private
sector in NASA's programs to ensure that the technology developed will have
maximum commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

