 

A Test Method for Determination of Energy Absorption Characteristics of
Composite Materials

A test method for determining the energy absorption capability of composite
materials has been developed. The test fixture, shown in the photograph,
supports flat composite plate specimens as compressive load is applied, such
that global buckling is not induced prior to crush initiation of the plate.
The plate may be crushed by as much as 80% of its original length. The
energy absorbed by the crushed plate is equal to the area under the load
versus deflection curve (a typical data plot is shown).

 
Typical load-displacement plot

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Crashworthy design of rotorcraft/aircraft subfloors fabricated of high
     strength, low weight composite materials
   * Crash barriers for highways
   * Protective containers
   * Crashworthy design of other vehicles such as automobiles, tanks, and
     boats
   * Crashworthy design of machinery and bumpers

 
Photograph of Crush Test Fixture

Benefits

   * Replaces expensive tube crush technique
   * Serves as a material screening test for energy absorption
   * Test fixture can accommodate plates of two different sizes

The Technology

Energy absorbing structural elements are often used to enhance the safety of
a vehicle during crash events. This test fixture enables designers to screen
various composite material systems and different lay-up combinations to
maximize energy absorption potential. The fixture provides lateral support
to the plate specimen during compressive loading. Typically, a trigger
mechanism is machined along one end of the plate. The trigger mechanism
serves as a site for crush initiation. A stable crushing response produces
the maximum energy absorption.

The test fixture has been used to conduct static and dynamic impact tests on
graphite-epoxy plates and graphite-PEEK plates, of the same lay-up and size.
These tests demonstrated that the PEEK resin specimens had superior
performance compared to the standard epoxy resin specimens when tested under
static load; however, under dynamic load, strain rate effects reduced the
energy absorption of the PEEK resin specimens.

In November 1994, ASTM established a task group to investigate test methods
for determining energy absorption capabilities, and to evaluate this crush
test fixture, in particular, as a standard test method for energy
absorption.

The test fixture was designed and tested by researchers at Virginia
Polytechnic Institute and State University, through grant support by NASA
Langley Research Center.

The crush test fixture was recently used as a composite material system and
laminate stacking sequence screening test for the subfloor design of the MD
Explorer Helicopter, manufactured by McDonnell Douglas, for improved
crashworthiness.

Options for Commercialization

The crush text fixture technology is available for licensing. NASA LaRC
seeks commercial partners for the joint development of this technology. This
commercial opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Program. The objective
of this program is to proactively involve the private sector in NASA's
programs to ensure that the technology developed will have maximum
commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

