 

Colorless and Low Dielectric Polyimide Thin Film Technology

NASA seeks to transfer into the commercial sector NASA-developed
technologies for producing high temperature, radiation resistant, colorless
and/or low dielectric polyimide materials. These materials, developed at
NASA Langley Research Center, offer the opportunity to develop optically
transparent and/or electrically insulating films and coatings on various
substrates. NASA seeks a commercial partner to work cooperatively with NASA
experts to develop commercial application for the materials. Commercial
licenses are available.

 

 

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Flexible printed circuit substrates
   * High temperature wire and cable wrapping
   * Electric motor and generator insulation >li> Multichip module
     interlayer dielectric
   * Solar cells and arrays
   * Protective coating for art and outdoor statues
   * Thermal control coatings
   * Wire coatings

Benefits

   * Optically transparent at 400-600 nm wavelength
   * Thermal use temperature of 300 deg.C
   * Low dielectric constant (2.4-2.8 at 10 GHz)
   * Good resistance to ultraviolet, electron, and proton irradiation
   * Low water absorption
   * Soluble in a variety of organic solvents

The Technology

A need exists for high temperature, flexible polymeric film and coating
materials that have high optical transparency and radiation stability for
space applications. Although there are several classes of transparent
polyesters and aliphatic polyimides, these materials have limited long term
thermal stability. NASA has long used Kapton(R) with a silicon dioxide
topcoat as a protective coating for spacecraft applications. Kapton(R) has a
yellow color that is acceptable for microelectronics and electrical
insulation applications. However, for solar arrays, reflectors, and thermal
control coating systems, NASA required a transparent colorless material with
better thermal stability and greater resistance to radiation and atomic
oxygen in low earth orbits.

In the mid-to-late seventies, NASA began researching methods for reducing
the possibility of inter- and intramolecular complex formation in polyimide
materials. NASA believed these charge transfer complexes were responsible
for the yellow polyimide color. Linear aromatic polyimide films and coatings
were prepared by the polymerization of a highly purified aromatic diamine
monomer and a highly purified dianhydride monomer in a solvent medium. This
new process involved two conditions: (1) purification of both the reactants
and the solvent, and (2) elimination of chromaphoric centers and reduction
of both interspace and intrachain electronic interactions. The resulting
polymer films were 80-100% transparent in the visible spectrum (400-600 nm),
at 100% or greater improvement over commercially available polyimides.

As part of this research, NASA introduced fluorine- containing groups to the
polyimides back-bone, thus producing transparent polymers that were highly
electrically insulative and resistant to moisture. NASA's investigation of
over 100 polymers has resulted in numerous linear polyimides that exhibit
low dielectric constants, in the range of 2.4 to 2.8 at 10 GHz. From a
performance standpoint, these polyimides have the potential to be superior
to commercially available polyimides currently used as materials for wire
coating, flexible printed circuit boards, and multichip module interlevel
dielectrics.

Options for Commercialization

This technology opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer Program.
The program seeks to stimulate development of commercial applications from
NASA-developed technology.

The Langley Research Center seeks a commercial partner to license the
technology and develop commercial applications. NASA has received two
patents on the colorless polyimide materials.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

