 

Precise Microstructures: Manufacture of Precision 3-Dimensional
Microstructures for Engineering, Medicine and Chemistry

Precise Microstructures are fine particles of uniformly sized and shaped
materials formed using vacuum deposition technology. A coating can be added,
if necessary, in subsequent processes. Current commercial inquiries indicate
a broad range of prospective market applications.

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Micromachine 3-D Parts and Assemblies
        o Gears, sprockets, wheels, ball bearings

   * Advancements for Medical and Pharmaceutical Processes
        o Therapeutic drugs
        o Artificial organs
        o Chronic illness treatments
        o Radiation Therapies

   * Microstructure Chemicals for Material Advancements
        o Precision fibers for composites
        o Engineered duration catalysts
        o Elements for microfiltration systems
        o Use in solid propellants, explosives, additives

Benefits

Medical

   * Slow dissolving pharmaceuticals capability
   * Inoperable tumor treatment

Mechanical

   * Increased precision for microstructures

Chemical

   * Lower cost precision additives

The Technology

This production technique was originally developed for making low-weight,
high-yield solid rocket fuels and explosives. The original process involved
the making of a precision template on which 25 micron (1/1000 of an inch)
cubes of boron could be formed. Using specially developed methods, the boron
cubes were removed and the plasma sputtered with a special coating which
magnified their combustibility. Subsequent development has demonstrated that
a variety of simple and some complex geometric structure can also be formed
using the original rocket fuel process.

Precise Microstructure Technology can be used to manufacture wheels and
gears for use in proto-type micro-machines. It can form specialized
geometric structures for use in medical technology. Precise Microstructures
can be used to make special, inter-linking fibers for advanced chemical
industry applications for everything from microfiltration systems to special
duration catalysts.

 
Originally developed for the production of propellants, this technology
requires the making of a template. The surface of the template is a
checkerboard of raised and lowered square areas. The lowered areas are the
bottoms of cubic holes etched into the surface.

 
Using Precision Microstructure technology micro machine parts such as gears,
sprockets and wheels can be manufactured.

 
Using Precision Microstructure technology micro machine parts such as gears,
sprockets and wheels can be manufactured.

Options for Commercialization

NASA seeks industry partners to cooperatively develop commercial products
based on precise microstructures technology under a space act agreement.
NASA has no patent coverage in this area at this time.

This commercialization opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer
Program. The objective of this program is to proactively involve the private
sector in NASA's programs to ensure that the technology developed will have
maximum commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

