 

Near Net Forming Aluminum-Lithium Alloys

The combination of aluminum-lithium (Al-Li) alloys and near net shape
forming enables the fabrication of low cost, lightweight products for
structural applications. Al-Li alloys have higher strength and stiffness and
lower weight than non-lithium aluminum alloys. These materials have good
formability, are weldable, and can achieve maximum strength in as formed
parts. Near net forming methods reduce final product costs by reducing
material scrap, reducing part counts and requiring fewer manufacturing
steps. A single piece, stiffened part can be formed to provide a higher
strength, lower cost alternative to assembled structures.

 
Al-Li Technology for Low Cost Commercial Launch Vehicles

Potential Commercial Uses

   * High stiffness, lightweight structures
   * Automotive applications (frame and chassis components)
   * Cryogenic storage tanks (Liquefied natural gas, liquefied fuels)
   * High performance sporting equipment (tennis racket frames, bicycle
     frames)
   * Lightweight aircraft structures (floor panels, cargo bay decks, wing
     structures)

Benefits

   * Higher strength and lower weight than non-lithium aluminum alloys
   * Maximum strength achieved in net formed parts
   * Material is easily formed and is weldable
   * Al-Li alloys have excellent cryogenic properties
   * Reduced material scrap through minimal machining
   * Reduced manufacturing steps and part counts
   * Reduced final structure costs

The Technology

NASA is working with an international industry team to further develop near
net shape forming methods for aluminum-lithium (Al-Li) alloys. The processes
under development include near net extrusion, roll forging, and spin
forming. The alloys being formed include both US and Russian Al-Li alloys.
NASA's goal is to reduce the cost of putting payloads into orbit by reducing
launch vehicle weight.

Aluminum-lithium alloys offer strength, stiffness, and weight benefits over
conventional non-lithium aluminum alloys. Al-Li alloys are easily formed,
are weldable, and have excellent cryogenic properties. Net formed parts can
be heat treated to maximum strength. Al-Li alloys are more expensive than
non-lithium aluminum alloys, but they can be cost effective replacements
when near net forming methods are used.

Near net forming methods allow integral formation of stiffening elements
during fabrication of parts, reducing the amount of scrap material generated
when compared with conventional machining methods. Replacement of multi-part
structures assembled by welding or riveting with the single piece,
integrally stiffened structure lowers final product costs by eliminating
fasteners, reducing the number of parts, and requiring fewer manufacturing
steps.

Current domestic near net extrusion capabilities can produce stiffened
panels 9 ft wide by 35 ft long with integral longitudinal stiffeners. In
launch vehicle structures, the panels eliminate the need for costly
machining from thick plate or the need for multi-part built up structures.
In aircraft applications, near net extruded panels may eliminate riveted
skin stringer aircraft construction.

Current roll forging capabilities can produce integrally stiffened sections
up to 10 feet in diameter. Stiffener elements can be complex in shape and
can be formed simultaneously on both the inner and outer diameter surfaces.

Options for Commercialization

This commercialization opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer
Program. The objective of this program is to proactively involve the private
sector in NASA's programs to ensure that the technology developed will have
the maximum commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

