 

Low-Temperature Oxidation Catalysts

NASA Langley has developed technology for the design and fabrication of
catalysts for low-temperature oxidation of carbon monoxide (CO) and other
gases. Oxidation of CO to carbon dioxide (CO2) and of formaldehyde (CH2O) to
CO2 and water can be readily achieved at typical room temperatures with
these catalysts.

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Regeneration of CO2 in closed-cycle CO2 lasers
   * Removal of CO and formaldehyde from houses and other buildings
   * Removal of CO and formaldehyde from automobile, aircraft, and other
     vehicle interiors
   * Conversion of toxic CO to nontoxic CO2 in protective face masks
   * Removal of CO from internal-combustion engine exhaust during cold-start
     conditions

Benefits

   * Performance: The oxidation catalysts developed at NASA Langley have
     high activity at low temperatures. Stoichiometric oxidation of CO has
     been achieved at temperatures as low as 0% C and catalyst activity
     increases with increasing oxygen concentration. Both CO and
     formaldehyde can be readily oxidized in air at typical room
     temperatures.
   * Key Features: NMRO catalysts perform essentially as passive devices,
     catalyzing the oxidation of both CO and formaldehyde at ambient
     temperatures without requiring any energy input, provided that a
     suitable gas flow through the catalyst is maintained.
   * Fabrication: NMRO catalysts can be fabrication in a number of ways and
     coated onto various catalyst supports, including porous ceramic
     monoliths and beads.

 
NASA-LaRC Catalyst

The Technology

A new class of low-temperature oxidation catalysts has been developed which
consist of a combinations of a noble-metal and one or more reducible-oxides.
These noble-metal/reducible-oxide (NMRO) catalysts, which were originally
developed for CO2 regeneration in space-based CO2 lasers, have significantly
higher catalytic activities than noble metal or reducible oxide catalysts
alone.

The NMRO catalysts which have been most extensively developed to date are
based on platinized tin-oxide (Pt/SnO2). Pt/SnO2 catalysts developed at
NASA-LaRC can continuously recombine small stoichiometric concentrations of
CO and O2 in closed-cycle CO2 lasers to regenerate CO2 at ambient laser
temperatures and thereby maintain laser performance.

Although originally developed for laser applications, Pt/SnO2-based
catalysts are also excellent catalysts for the oxidation of CO to CO2 in air
at typical room temperatures. These catalysts also efficiently catalyze the
room-temperature oxidation of formaldehyde in air to CO2 and water. Thus,
both CO and formaldehyde can be removed from air at typical room
temperatures by catalytic oxidation with a single catalyst.

Development and testing of NMRO catalysts for low-temperature oxidation of
other gases and for other applications is currently in progress.

Options for Commercialization

NASA seeks industry partners to cooperatively develop commercial products
and applications involving low-temperature oxidation catalysts. Mantic Corp.
(Salt Lake City, UT) has been granted a partial exclusive license for the
manufacture of CO-removal face masks. Negotiations for partially exclusive
licenses are currently in progress with Rochester Gas and Electric Corp. for
indoor air purification and with Science and Technology Corp. (Hampton, VA)
for CO2 regeneration in commercial lasers. However, NASA currently holds
several patents pertinent to the manufacture and use of low-temperature
oxidation catalysts which are available for licensing for other
applications.

This commercialization opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer
Program. The objective of this program is to proactively involve the private
sector in NASA's programs to ensure that the technology developed will have
maximum commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

