 

Explosive Seam Welding of Metals

Explosive welding, or bonding, is accomplished by an explosively driven,
high velocity, angular impact of two metal surfaces. At impact, the surfaces
(which always contain some level of oxidation) are melted, stripped off and
ejected by the closing angle of the impact. The surfaces, which are now
metallurgically pure, are pressed into intimate contact by the explosive
pressure, allowing valence electron sharing and an atomic-level bonding. One
or both of the metals to be joined can be driven by the explosive input(s)
to accomplish this joining process. Narrow seam joining can be accomplished
for metals in thickness' to 1/8-inch.

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Joining of tubes
   * Joining of tubes to fittings
   * Plugging of tubes
   * Splicing sheet stock (scarf)
   * Joining dissimilar thickness'
   * Splicing wires, attaching to fittings; full conductivity
   * Hermetically sealing vessels
   * Attaching cooling fins
   * Joining dissimilar/non-fusion weldable metals
   * Remote joining in hazardous environments

Benefits

   * Cold working process
   * Metallurgical bond
   * No effect on parent properties
   * Join metal combinations not possible with fusion
   * Join thin sheets to thick
   * Small scale (small quantities of explosive)
   * Precision
   * Minimum fixturing/jigs
   * High speed
   * Portable

 
Example of explosive seam welding of pure aluminum to pure copper for
electrical transformer application. The lower figure shows a peel test. The
bond did not fail; the weaker aluminum was ripped out of the sheet.

The Technology

Explosive welding (bonding or joining) is accomplished by an explosively
driven, high-velocity angular impact of two metal surfaces. At impact, the
surfaces (which always contain some level of oxidation) are melted, stripped
off and ejected by the closing angle of the impact. The surfaces, which are
now metallurgically pure, are pressed into intimate contact by the explosive
pressure, allowing valence electron sharing and an atomic-level bonding. One
or both of the metals to be joined can be driven by explosive input(s) to
accomplish this joining process. Langley Research Center has developed a
unique seam process that allows the joining of metals at precise locations.
The seams are 1/4 to 1/2 inch in width, depending on the material and
thickness to be joined, and can be applied to complex geometries. The seam
is produced by a "ribbon" explosive, which contains very small amounts of
explosive, sheathed in lead for flexibility of application. The minimum
length in which joining can be accomplished is approximately 1/4 inch. There
is no upper limit in length. Safety issues have been addressed through the
design of electrical firing circuits and containment systems. This process
requires less volume than that used by a person in an arc welding booth. A
major advantage of this process is its ability to be used for remote
operation. The explosive materials and welding interfaces can be assembled
outside of a hazardous environment, such as in nuclear reactors, and then
inserted for final assembly.

Options for Commercialization

NASA seeks industry partners to cooperatively develop commercial products,
using this fabrication process. To date, agreements and technology transfers
have been accomplished in the fields of nuclear reactor repair, of tube
plugging for heat exchangers and of wire splicing for electrical
transformers. NASA holds a number of patents on this technology, which
available for licensing. Future patentable processes, developed through
joint agreements, be fully exploited without licensing, and with royalty
sharing. This commercial opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer
Program. The objective of this program is to proactively involve the private
sector in NASA's research programs to ensure that the technology developed
will have maximum commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

