 

Vacuum-Bake Ultra Cleaning and Certification of Hardware

Ultra cleaning by customized high-vacuum baking of hardware can remove
molecular residues and solvents left by manufacturing and cleaning
processes. The basic techniques for real time evaluation of the cleaning
process and identification of light organic compounds are well established.
Refinements in measurements and analyses requirements are continuing to be
developed.

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Scientific Instruments
   * Food and Drug Processing
   * Immune Deficiency Medical Rooms
   * Clean Rooms
   * Leak Detection

Benefits

   * Cleaner Surfaces
   * Increased Measurement Accuracy

 
Vacuum-Bake Cleaning Facility

The Technology

Noxious fumes and odors from plastizers and cleaning solvents are often
associated with new equipment. The vacuum-bake process can be applied to a
wide variety of hardware where molecular contamination and residues are of
concern and to hardware not suitable to solvent cleaning. Molecules of oils
and cleaning solvent are readily released (outgassed) from hardware under
high vacuum. Heating increases this outgassing. The molecules will become
trapped on a very cold (<-100 degree F) surface and can be later weighed and
analyzed for chemical composition. Trapping of the outgassed residues on
cooled scavenger plates or refrigerated cold traps for gravimetric
(quantitative) analysis and infrared spectroscopy (qualitative) analysis is
an important part of the ultra cleaning. Refinements in measurements,
analyses and in customizing the vacuum bake parameters to meet cleanliness
requirements are continuing. For example, enclosing the test article with
the scavenger plate in the vacuum chamber increases the collection of
outgassed compounds and increases the measurement accuracy.

Options for Commercialization

NASA seeks to disseminate information to industry for the commercial
development of products and processes based on Vacuum-Bake Ultracleaning and
Certification technology. This technology is not patent protected by NASA.
This commercial opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer Program.
The objective of this program is to proactively involve the private sector
in NASA's programs to ensure that the technology developed will have maximum
commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

