 

Precision Vibration Isolator

The NASA Langley developed precision vibration isolator was designed for
spacecraft payloads needing extreme pointing stability. Motors and other
disturbances on the spacecraft necessitated the use of active vibration
isolation to reduce unwanted movement. Precision pointing is achieved using
an actuator and sensor system that can absorb the vibratory motion without
drifting.

 

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Machinery Isolation
   * Noise Control
   * Optical Assemblies
   * Micro-Actuators

Benefits

   * High stiffness compared to conventional isolation mounts
   * Can be precisely set for static alignment
   * Adapts to a wide range of disturbances

The Technology

The precision vibration isolator is designed to sense and compensate for
unwanted motion. The isolator serves as an attachment between the device to
be stabilized and surrounding structure. Movement in the isolator is
achieved using piezoelectric actuators which can expand and contract.
Sensing of the vibrations is performed with accelerometers, one on each end
of the isolator. The accelerometer signals are fed into an analog (or
digital) controller which then commands the actuator movement.

The isolator has been tested in the laboratory and shown to reduce unwanted
vibrations by 80%. The current isolator has force capabilities of several
hundred pounds and a stroke capability of about 0.001 inches. The isolator
has been operated to a frequency of 100 Hz and much higher operating
frequencies are possible.

Movement in the isolator is achieved using piezoelectric actuators which can
expand and contract. Sensing of the vibrations is performed with
accelerometers, one on each end of the isolator. The accelerometer signals
are fed into an analog (or digital) controller which then commands the
actuator movement.

Options for Commercialization

NASA seeks industry partners to cooperatively develop precision vibration
isolators. Although NASA currently holds several patents for advanced
sensing and actuation materials applicable to future isolator development,
the current prototype can be packaged and developed using commercial
products.

This commercialization opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer
Program. The objective of this program is to proactively involve the private
sector in NASA's programs to ensure that the technology developed will have
maximum commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

