 

Ultra Cleaning and Certification of High Performance Optics

The performance of an optical system degrades with decreasing cleanliness
levels. Therefore, quantitative cleanliness measurements help determine when
it is necessary to clean or replace optics in high performance applications
or schedule-sensitive programs. Knowledge of the optical cleanliness levels
needed to maintain the required system performance, together with the means
to monitor those levels, are powerful tools to help insure cost-effective
and trouble-free system performance.

Potential Commercial Uses

   * High energy laser optics
   * Low light level measurements
   * Bright out-of-field sources
   * Medical optics

Benefits

   * Efficient optical performance
   * Cost-effective optics
   * Trouble free system performance

 

The Technology

Optical, photographic and electron microscopy are used at NASA Langley to
measure and document particle cleanliness and cleaning efficiencies using
MIL-std-1246A cleanliness criteria. Surface densities of one to 100 micron
particles are generally used to determine cleanliness levels 10 to 500. Both
bright field and dark field microscopy with several illumination and
photographic systems are used. Microextraction and oblique illumination are
used to see molecular films. Cleaning of new optics is compared with
cleaning of extensive-service optics. Generally new optics are about 100
times easier to clean than extensive-service (more than one year old)
optics. Molecular films tend to trap and/or cement small particles to
optical surfaces, and thereby contribute to particle deposition and strongly
affect cleaning efficiency of in-service optics. Evaluation of robustness of
in-service optics is usually required in order to customize (time of
ultrasonication and type of cleaning solvent) a cleaning procedure that will
achieve a satisfactory cleanliness level with minimal damage to the optics.
Degradation of the performance of an optical system (e.g. optical damage or
excessive scatter) can be empirically correlated with cleanliness levels.
Therefore, quantitative cleanliness measurements help determine when it is
necessary to clean or replace optics in essential instruments in high
performance applications or schedule-sensitive (i.e. spacecraft, aircraft or
medical) programs.

Options for Commercialization

NASA seeks to disseminate information to industry for the commercial
development of products based on Ultra Cleaning and Certification of High
Performance Optics technology. This technology is not patent protected by
NASA.

This commercial opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer Program.
The objective of this program is to proactively involve the private sector
in NASA's programs to ensure that the technology developed will have maximum
commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

