 

Braze Assisted Diffusion Bonding-High Temperature, Low Pressure Metal
Joining Technique

Braze assisted diffusion bonding is an inexpensive approach to diffusion
bonding of metal structural components. It is typically a less expensive
method of joining metals than other methods currently used in industry.
Bonding is unique in that it is accomplished without the addition of filler
materials. The key factors in the bonding procedure are time, temperature,
and pressure.

 
Hard shell vacuum vessel

 
Metal vacuum envelope

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Non-welded or non-brazed laminated metal sheets
   * Custom filtration systems or strainers
   * Exotic internal orifices within large or small structures
   * Bimetallic laminates

Benefits

   * Braze assisted diffusion bonding offers a low cost alternative to
     expensive standard diffusion bonding methods
   * Braze assisted diffusion bonding does not require elaborate, high
     maintenance equipment
   * Process can also be used for brazing applications

The Technology

An extensive study has been done by NASA Langley on 300 series stainless
steels using braze assisted diffusion bonding. This technique is not new to
industry. Typical metal-to-metal diffusion bonding is often accomplished in
vacuum hot press furnaces using pressures as high as 600 PSIG. Particular
surface finishes and extreme cleanliness are very important as are time and
temperature to ensure good diffused mating surfaces.

The metals joining applications developed at NASA Langley incorporate the
use of vacuum enveloping technology. Hardware is positioned in a metal bag
(envelope) equipped with a vacuum hookup line. The assembly is placed in a
furnace, the air is evacuated from the metal bag, and heat is applied.
Through use of the atmospheric pressure on the envelop an evenly distributed
14.7 PSI is employed onto the hardware. When used on a larger scale,
hardware can be placed in a vacuum vessel with a thin vacuum membrane on top
of the vessel. Atmospheric pressure on the membrane aids in bonding the
components.

NASA Langley has been using this process in the construction of all (backup)
wind tunnel nozzle sections for the Eight Foot High Temperature
Transpiration Cooled Mach Seven Nozzle. The technology developed using these
types of fabrication processes enables bonding to be done at relatively low
pressures on thin intricately detailed hardware.

Options for Commercialization

NASA seeks industry partners to cooperatively develop commercial products
using the Braze Assisted Diffusion Bonding technology. Some of the options
available for cooperative technology development include collaborative
research under Memorandums of Agreement, patent acquisition and licensing,
and industry-led solution development to specific problem statements.

This commercial opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer Program.
The objective of this program is to proactively involve the private sector
in NASA's research programs to ensure that the technology developed will
have maximum commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

