 

Micro-Vortex Generators for Flow Separation Control

Flow detachment or separation from the surface is usually extremely
detrimental to the performance of a system in motion; for example, it can
lead to increased vehicle drag or decreased airplane lift. The control of
flow separation is an important engineering problem, since a reduction in
the amount of flow separation can significantly decrease fuel consumption
and improve system performance. Researchers at NASA Langley have
successfully used very small flow control devices, called micro-vortex
generators (micro VGs), to reduce flow separation. Micro VGs have improved
the performance of high-lift airfoils, increasing lift by 10% and reducing
drag by 50%. In addition, this technology has broad non-aerospace potential
and can be used to solve a variety of performance problems.

 
Micro VGs mounted on wing flap

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Commercial and General Aviation: Provides drag reduction, more
     effective stall control, and improved performance of high-lift airfoils
   * Race Cars: Improve rear wing spoiler effectiveness--resulting in
     greater traction
   * Automobile and Trucks: Reduces aerodynamic drag and decreases fuel
     consumption
   * Marine: Improve rudder efficiency and stability
   * General Applications: Improve efficiency of turbines, wind mills,
     heating, ventilation, and air-conditioning systems, etc.

Benefits

   * Increased fuel savings and improved system performance
   * Passive system for drag reduction that is easy to install and maintain
   * Economical device to alleviate flow separation

The Technology

The significance of micro VGs is in their compact size and low device drag
characteristics. With their innovative low-profile and low-aspect-ratio
design, combined with a sharp sweep angle at the their leading edges, the
micro VGs produce an array of trailing streamwise vortices very efficiently.
These miniature streamwise vortices (or little tornadoes) are highly
effective in energizing the flows near the surface through wallward momentum
transfer, and thereby, resulting in effective flow separation alleviation.

The micro VGs, developed originally for the high-lift research at NASA
Langley, can be made in the form of easy-mounting strips or individual
pieces with a device height as small as 0.04 inches, using a specially
developed manufacturing technique. Despite their small size, the micro VGs
proved to be very effective in alleviating flow separation on flaps of
multi-element high-lift systems, that are typical of those being used on
modern commercial transport aircraft. Wind-tunnel tests showed a
lift-to-drag ratio improvement of over 100% with the micro-vortex generator
application.

 
Effects of micro VGs on downstream flowfield

Options for Commercialization

NASA seeks industry partners to cooperatively develop commercial
applications for the micro VG technology. This commercialization opportunity
is part of the NASA Technology Transfer Program. The objective of this
program is to proactively involve the private sector in NASA's programs to
ensure that the technology developed will have maximum commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

