 

Oxygen-free Welding Contact Tips

NASA Langley Research Center has developed a new contact tip to be used with
robotic welding equipment. The oxygen-free welding contact tip replaces
existing standard oxygen impregnated copper tips, and offers significant
savings in cost and time. In applications using the oxygen-free tip, contact
tip replacement down time is reduced, electrical characteristics are
improved, and fewer welded parts are rejected.

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Robotic welding applications
   * Automotive manufacturing
   * Heavy structure manufacturing
   * Any mass production processes utilizing robotic welding

 

Benefits

   * Less down time for robotic welders
   * Longer equipment life
   * Improved electrical characteristics
   * Fewer part rejections
   * Cost savings

 

The Technology

Contact tips for gas/metal arc welding (GMAW) have been fabricated from an
oxygen-free copper, significantly reducing the electrical erosion rate.
Standard GMAW contact tips, which are manufactured from a low grade, oxygen
impregnated copper are considered to be expendable items. Problems
associated with electrical erosion in robotic welding of heavy weldments
include the need to spend excessive down time in the removal and replacement
of the contact tips. The material used for manufacture of the prototype
contact tip is an oxygen free copper (ASTM F-68-92) for electron devices.
Use of the oxygen-free contact tip material reduces electrical erosion,
improves electrical conductivity, and reduces mechanical wear. Robotic
welding productivity is increased, while equipment down time for contact tip
removal and replacement is minimized. Joint/filler metal alignment also
improves, reducing the rejection/repair rate for unacceptable weldments due
to joint misalignment.

Options for Commercialization

NASA seeks industry partners to cooperatively develop commercial products
based on the Oxygen-free Contact Tip invention. NASA was issued a U.S.
patent entitled "Substantially Oxygen-free Contact Tip," (# 5,192,852), and
welcomes inquiries regarding possible licensing of this technology.

This commercial opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer Program.
The objective of this program is to proactively involve the private sector
in NASA's research programs to ensure that the technology developed will
have maximum commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

