 

Ignitability Test Method

This method provides a new approach for determining the ability of
initiators (such as primers for munitions) to ignite combustible material
(such as gunpowder), as well as for determining the ignition sensitivity of
combustible material.

Potential Commercial Uses

   * For initiators and combustible materials
        o Quality control
        o Design
        o Service life evaluations
   * Design of gas generators
   * Design of munitions
   * Establish safety criteria
   * Performance standard

 
Cross sectional view of NASA Ignitability Test Method

Benefits

   * Measures total output of initiators, rather than components (heat,
     light, gas, and burning particles)
   * Measures material ignition sensitivity to typical initiators
   * Can duplicate actual ignition on interfaces
   * Reusable
   * Highly reproducible
   * Less expensive than testing materials in application (firing a gun)
   * Provides performance standard among user agencies

 
Definition of parameters used for Ignitability Test Method

The Technology

This test method provides an ability to: 1) measure the output of
initiators, such as percussion primers, and 2) measure the sensitivity of
materials to be ignited. The principal of this apparatus, in measuring the
output of initiators, is to fire an initiator onto a bed of combustible
material, such as black powder, and measure the rate at which the material
burns. This rate of burning is measured by the material pressurizing a
closed volume. The test is repeated with a different initiator and the
results are compared to establish relative performance. In measuring the
ignition sensitivity of materials, a highly reproducible initiator is fired
onto different types of materials, measuring the rate at which the material
ignites and burns to establish relative performance.

Options for Commercialization

NASA seeks industry partners to cooperatively develop commercial products,
using this test method. This method was developed for the evaluation of
percussion primers used in aircraft escape systems. Later, joint studies
were conducted with the U.S. Army, Picatinny Arsenal on applying this method
to evaluate the performance of both percussion and electrical primers for
munitions. Also, several batches of gun propellants for two different
caliber munitions were evaluated. NASA holds a patent on this method and
apparatus, which is available for licensing.

This commercial opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer Program.
The objective of this program is to pro actively involve the private sector
in NASA's research programs to ensure that the technology developed will
have maximum commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

