 

Blind Fastening Technique

Blind-Anchor-Nut-Installation-Fixture (BANIF)

The "Blind-Anchor-Nut-Installation-Fixture" (BANIF) was developed
specifically for the purpose of replacing or installing anchor nuts in blind
holes or other inaccessible places. Attachment of an anchor nut to the BANIF
enables placement of the anchor nut on the blind side of a component.
Previous methods required disassembly or remanufacturing of the component to
achieve the same results.

 
The BANIF Tool

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Sheet metal manufacturing and repair
   * Automotive bodywork
   * Aircraft skin attachment and repair
   * Boat repair
   * Repair of space hardware
   * Inexpensive maintenance and repair of transportation systems

 

Benefits

   * Inexpensive
   * Easy to use
   * Allows the use of fasteners in inaccessible locations
   * Eliminates the need for disassembly or remanufacturing of parts to be
     repaired
   * Quick and simple

The Technology

The Blind-Anchor-Nut-Installation-Fixture (BANIF) is a NASA invention which
enables the user to install an anchor nut on the blind side of a component.
First, a clearance hole for the bolt to be anchored is drilled into the
component. An anchor-nut drill fixture is placed in the clearance hole, and
one of two rivet holes is drilled. The fixture is then rotated 180 degrees,
and the second rivet hole is drilled. Next, the anchor-nut ear is fed into
the clearance hole, using the BANIF, and the entire anchor-nut assembly is
passed through to the blind side. The BANIF is put into tension to pull the
anchor-nut to the blind surface, and the anchor-nut ears are aligned with
the rivet holes. Flush rivets are then placed in the rivet holes, on the
accessible side, and the BANIF is removed.

 

Options for Commercialization

NASA seeks industry partners to cooperatively develop commercial products
based on the BANIF invention. NASA was issued a U.S. patent entitled "Blind
Fastening Apparatus," (# 5,197,839), and welcomes inquiries regarding
possible licensing of this technology.

This commercial opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer Program.
The objective of this program is to proactively involve the private sector
in NASA's research programs to ensure that the technology developed will
have maximum commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

