 

Combustibility Testing of R-134a Refrigerant

Beginning January 1, 1996, the production of ozone-depleting (CFC)
refrigerant will be banned in most industrialized nations. This ban has
major implications for companies that operate and sell refrigerant
equipment.

Researchers at NASA Langley have recently completed tests on a
hydrofluorocarbon, HFC-134a, that has emerged as a replacement for CFC-12 in
many applications. A comprehensive database has been created to predict the
combustibility behavior of HFC-134a over a range of operating conditions. In
addition, a methodology for testing refrigerant gases at non-ideal
temperatures, pressures, and concentrations has been developed.

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Refrigerant Management: The database can be used to establish
     guidelines for the safe use and handling of HFC-134a. This information
     is ideally suited to users with non-traditional or specialized
     applications of CFC replacement gases
   * Combustibility Testing: The test apparatus enables the user to
     characterize the combustibility of a given gas for a range of
     temperatures, pressures, and concentrations

Benefits

   * Database defines combustibility envelop for safe usage of HFC-134a
   * Test apparatus can be used to investigate several ignition sources
     including: exploding wire, hot surface, and auto-ignition
   * A wide range of test conditions are possible: Temperature Range
     (ambient temperature-600 deg. F)
   * Pressure Range (atmospheric - 740 psia)
   * Concentration Levels (2%-50%)

 
Pressure vs. concentration , exploding wire ignition

The Technology

Hydrofluorocarbon (HFC-134a) has been developed as an alternative gas for
chlorofluorocarbons. HFC-134a is thermodynamically similar to CFC-12 and
contains no chlorine, therefore it has an Ozone Depletion Potential (ODP) of
zero. It can be used in many applications that currently use
dichlorodifluoromethane (CFC-12), such as refrigeration, polymer foam
blowing, and aerosol products. HFC-134a, however, is combustible under
certain conditions of temperature, pressure, and concentration with an
oxidizer.

NASA currently uses CFC-12 as the working medium in the Transonic Dynamics
Tunnel (TDT), a large-scale wind tunnel at Langley Research Center. The
CFC-12 or heavy gas is separated and reclaimed from the gas/air mixture by
condensing. This reclamation process subjects the heavy gas/air mixture to a
variety of pressures, temperatures, and oxidizer concentrations.

HFC-134a was identified as a suitable replacement gas in the TDT. It was
recognized, however that under conditions present in the TDT reclamation
system, HFC134a/air mixture could form a combustible mixture. A test program
was initiated at NASA Langley to characterize the combustibility of HFC-134a
in terms of pressure, temperature, concentration, and type of ignition.
Other tests were conducted to investigate the combustibility characteristics
in the presence of nitrogen diluent and conditions favorable to flame
propagation.

 
R134a Charge and Purge Schematic

Options for Commercialization

This technology opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer Program.
The objective of this program is to ensure that NASA-developed technology
will have maximum benefit in the private sector.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

