 

Net-Casting Ceramics

A new method has been developed for netcasting ceramic articles which
previously were considered too delicate or detailed for ceramic slip
casting. The new method uses a unique shell mold which is formed over an
investment pattern such as injectable wax, QuickCast{Registered} resin or
other investment materials used in rapid prototyping.

The set materials are taken to a high temperature to burn out the investment
pattern, leaving a detailed and seamless shell mold. Once cooled, the shell
mold can be used for slip casting. The shell mold is weakened by the liquid
it absorbs from the slip and is quickly and easily removed from the final
casting.

 

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Fabrication and prototyping: rapid production of net-form ceramics and
     ceramic composites
   * Prosthetics: use in reconstructive surgery of complex joints and bone
     formation
   * Optics: use in fabrication of platforms, brackets and mirrors for
     thermal and flexural stability
   * Electronics: use in fabrication of solid state and dielectric large
     scale components such as insulators and superconducting ceramics
   * Engines: use with high-temperature high-strength materials for
     development of fuel efficient engines

Benefits

   * Detail: shell mold used for ceramic slip casting replicates fine detail
     and is easily removed from a final casting
   * Economy: casting techniques are quick and inexpensive
   * Versatility: new method allows for slip casting with more and different
     materials

The Technology

A slip is a crowded suspension of microscopic ceramic particles in a liquid.
A slip is first poured into a mold which draws out the liquid and sets the
initial shape of the piece through particle packing. It is then removed from
the mold and fired to high temperatures at which the particles bond.

In the past, plaster of Paris was used in flask or block molds for slip
casting since it absorbs water readily. Mold preparation for detailed shapes
is complex and inaccurate since separate mold pieces are required. In
addition, plaster is strengthened upon absorption of water making release
from detailed cast parts nearly impossible.

The new technique uses a calcium-bonded refractory mix to form a shell mold
over an investment pattern, such as wax, which is then taken to high
temperatures and burned out or vaporized, leaving a complete detailed mold
pattern. The new slip mold draws water or aqueous liquids similar to plaster
of Paris but also draws non-aqueous liquids such as alcohol and other
organic liquids. It is also weakened by the liquid it absorbs and is thus
easily peeled or removed from the finished casting.

Options for Commercialization

NASA seeks industry partners to cooperatively develop commercial products
based on the new method of ceramic slip casting. Precision Ceramics, Inc.
(Richmond, VA) has been granted a partially exclusive license for the
manufacture of products for medical, marine, recreational, optical and
electronic applications. However, NASA holds patents for other applications
which are available for licensing.

This commercialization opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer
Program. The objective of this program is to proactively involve the private
sector in NASA's programs to ensure that the technology developed will have
maximum commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

