 

Automated Imaging Technique for Determining Surface Changes

The Automated Imaging Technique for Determining Surface Changes was
developed at the NASA Langley Research Center for detecting and measuring
postflight defects on lower surface Shuttle tiles. Postflight inspection of
the 17,000 lower surface tiles is one of the most important inspections
performed during an Orbiter refurbishment flow. During this inspection, all
flight related damage to the Thermal Protection System is identified,
measured and recorded. An initial version has been incorporated into Kennedy
Space Center's prototype robot system for inspection and rewaterproofing of
lower surface Shuttle tiles. This version detects gross defect types such
as: (1) missing black ceramic glaze, exposing the white silicon substrate,
and (2) missing silver-white pillow-type gap fillers.

 
Robotic tile processing system

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Equipment inspection
   * Tool-crib surveillance
   * Process control
   * Corrosion monitoring
   * Artwork authentication

Benefits

   * Historical archive of surface appearance
   * Detailed record of changes in appearance
   * Reduce tedious detailed inspection
   * Reduce labor and rework cost
   * Increased throughput

The Technology

In order to protect the Shuttle's aluminum skin from excessive heat during
reentry, the outer surface of each Orbiter is covered with over 20,000
thermal tiles. Because a single failed tile can cause a catastrophic system
failure, each tile is manually inspected after each flight. This inspection
process is labor intensive and time consuming.

The Automated Imaging Technique for Determining Surface Changes has been
developed at NASA Langley to automatically detect and measure postflight
defects on lower surface Shuttle tiles. The system accomplishes the
detection by identifying anomalies between preflight and postflight images
of each tile.

The approach utilizes a technique where the preflight image of a tile serves
as the template against which the postflight image of the tile is compared.
Candidate anomalies are selected as a result of the comparison and processed
to identify true anomalies. A variety of both standard and NASA Langley
developed image processing techniques are employed to accommodate lighting
variation and image misregistration and to perform pattern analysis.

Options for Commercialization

This technology is part of the NASA Technology Transfer Program. The program
seeks to stimulate development of commercial applications from
NASA-developed technology. The Automated Imaging Technique for Determining
Surface Changes has been incorporated into Kennedy Space Center's prototype
robot system for inspection and rewaterproofing of lower surface Shuttle
tiles. Suitability of this technology to specific needs can be investigated.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

