 

Computer Numerical Control Composite Patternmaking

Composite patternmaking uses Computer Numerical Control (CNC) machining to
create a foam and fiberglass structure which is lightweight, stiff and holds
its shape well. Using lightweight polyurethane foam, the pattern is machined
by computer generated programs, allowing for skin thickness normal to the
required surface. Tool marks are slightly sanded to provide a smooth
surface. Next, a skin of fiberglass and resin is applied by hand onto the
core, building up to the required shape and size. The pattern is then
reinstalled on the CNC machine for necessary trimming. The CNC process is
also capable of creating mold surfaces, and if applicable entire parts can
be fabricated rather than patterns or molds.

 
Machining the pattern

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Aviation:
        o wind tunnel research models
        o radio-controlled flight models
   * Automotive:
        o wind tunnel research models
   * Recreational sports:
        o boats
        o snowboards

Benefits

* Time and labor savings
* Greater accuracy and symmetry
* Ease of fabricating complex shapes

The Technology

Traditional fabrication techniques of wind tunnel models using wooden
patterns is labor intensive and presents numerous obstacles to the craftsman
including deformation associated with climatic changes, splintering due to
carving against irregular grain structures. CNC fabrication techniques, on
the otherhand, use foam materials which have lack grain structure thus
saving machining time and improving fabrication accuracy. Additional time
savings can be attained when symmetrical parts are produced by mirroring
programs generated for one half of the part.

Many variations can be derived from this composite patternmaking technique.
Should the pattern shape become too complex for hand laying the fiberglass
due to large skin thickness and accuracy requirements, the glass and resin
surface can be lightly machined to the correct shape. Alternatively patterns
can be machined and the manual addition of parting planes completes the
preparation for the molding process. The CNC process is also capable of
creating mold surfaces, and if applicable entire parts can be fabricated
rather than patterns or molds.

NASA Langley seeks commercial partner for the joint development of this
technology. This commercial opportunity is part of the NASA Technology
Program. The objective of this program is to proactively involve the private
sector in NASA's programs to ensure that the technology developed will have
maximum commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

