 

Rapid Electron-Beam Cured Composite Resins

10 MeV electron beam (E-Beam) cure processing has been found to increase the
cure rate by an order of magnitude over thermally cured systems, yet provide
less molded in stresses and high T(g)s. The technology,introduced by an
academia-industry partnership sparked by NASA's Langley Research Center,
utilizes a cost effective, rapid curing processing technique for polymeric
composites which effectively reduces the need for expensive, thermally
stable tooling and energy/time inefficient autoclave processing. The beam
can cure the laminate in seconds, (compared to hours for autoclave thermal
curing), in ambient or sub-ambient conditions. The process is based on
E-Beam curing of a new series of specially formulated, 65 to >1,000,000 cPs
resins that have been shown to exhibit excellent mechanical and physical
properties once cured.

 

 

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Corona and ozone resistant insulations, coatings and potting compounds
     for the electric power distribution industry
   * Radar, sonar and microwave transparent domes with low dielectric
     constant and loss
   * Thick composite submarine and ship hulls, with corrosion resistance and
     biofouling release properties
   * Truss structures for civil engineering infrastructural applications
   * Composite radomes, potting compounds and adhesives (e.g. structural,
     die attach etc.)
   * Pultruded and filament wound, prepreg and RTM molded composites
   * Molded components include primary aircraft structures and other high
     fuel efficiency sensitive, lightweight transportation applications such
     as car frames and safety cages and other structures replacing steel,
     rail cars, trailers, buses and subways
   * Sporting goods such as bike frames, rackets, and golf clubs, Sailboat;
     masts, hulls and superstructures
   * High thermal stability composite tooling directly from a low
     temperature master such as wood
   * Space Deployable Rigidized Lightweight Inflatable Structures

Benefits

   * Innovative polymers form protective low earth orbit atomic oxygen
     resistant (AOR) glass surface layer in low earth orbit (Aeroplas AOR
     resin series)
   * Composites made from these polymers have excellent strength, modulus
     and toughness and one series is fire retardant
   * Low shrinkage, CTE and low molded in stresses since the E-Beam curing
     takes place at room temperature
   * High thermal stability possible without postcure, making low cost,
     once-off tooling a reality
   * Very low moisture regain and outgassing for ideal space cleanliness
     conditions
   * Extremely rapid cure time and >1" cure thickness in one pass with new
     lower cost compact accelerators
   * Energy efficient, environmentally friendly, solventless, no amine
     curing agent required and non-toxic resin components

The Technology

A wide range of resins are now available that, when cured by the 10 MeV
E-Beam curing technique, possess performance properties equal or exceeding
current state-of-the-art toughened epoxies and BMI's. These new resins can
be successfully cured with solar, ultraviolet and E-Beam radiation. The
resins cure in seconds, compared to hours for thermal curing, in ambient or
sub-ambient conditions. The E-Beam cured Aerotron AOR series polymers, when
exposed to AO, form an AO resistant glass surface layer, eliminating the
need for a temporary metallic or ceramic coating. The non-amine cured epoxy
base resins exhibit excellent physical and mechanical properties, low
shrinkage, good impact resistance and low outgassing when compared to
currently utilized thermally cured epoxy composites. Other lower cost epoxy
based resins are also available. The E-Beam curing process is energy
efficient, and both the E-Beam curing process and the cured resins are
engineered to be hygienically safe, environmentally friendly, energy
efficient.

Options for Commercialization

Aeroplas Corporation is seeking to license this NASA Langley SBIR technology
or formulate additional resins for proprietary customer applications in
addition to their own patent pending cationic cure AOR and lower cost epoxy
based resins formulated for all types of composite manufacturing processes.

These commercialization/technological development opportunities are part of
the NASA SBIR program. An objective of the SBIR program is for NASA to
actively be involved in technology transfer while giving the small business
a chance to develop and commercialize innovative and technically risky
products.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Contact

If your company is interested in this technology, or if you desire
additional information, please contact:

Thomas C. Walton
Aeroplas Corporation International
265B Proctor Hill Road (Route 130)
Hollis, NH 03049-6427
E-Mail: tcwalton@aeroplas.com
WWW Site: http://www.aeroplas.com
Sales/Technical Phone: 508-433-9351
Plant/Lab: 603-465-7300 FAX: 603-465-9799

