 

Optical Fiber Stain Gage Using NASA Polyimides

Fiber & Sensor Technologies (F&S), through a NASA-sponsored SBIR program, is
developing commercial products based on optical fiber strain gage
technology. Optical fiber strain gages are being fabricated using
LaRC(TM)-SI and LaRC(TM)-IA thermoplastic polyimides as protective optical
fiber coatings as well as high-strength adhesives to bond the gage together
and to surface-attach the strain gage to various materials. The
thermoplastic polyimides developed by NASA Langley researchers are tough,
lightweight, and durable at elevated temperatures (>180 deg. C) and in
hostile environments that destroy ordinary plastics. Hence, the polyimides
are well suited as high-temperature protective coatings for silica-based
(SiO ) optical fibers and optical fiber strain sensors, which themselves
can operate reliably up to approximately 900 deg. C.

Potential Commercial Uses

   * NDE of High-Temperature Materials
   * Intelligent Low-Cost Process Monitoring
   * Characterization of Polymer Composites
   * Civil Structure Health Monitoring
   * Pressure Sensing
   * High-Temperature Dieplacement
   * Strain Monitoring of Aging Aircraft
   * Corrosion Sensing
   * Smart Highway Sensors
   * Impact Detection and Location
   * Acoustic Emission Detection
   * Hydrogen Sensing

Benefits

   * High-temperature strain sensing
   * Corrosion resistance
   * Can be embedded
   * Small size and weight
   * Very small thermal drift
   * Real-time digital readout of strain
   * Immunity to electromagnetic interference

The Technology

Over 100 million electrical strain gages are employed annually for a wide
range of strain monitoring applications. For many applications, however,
such as for high-cycle fatigue loading, high-temperature testing,
measurements in large electromagnetic fields, and for embedded measurements,
no reliable electrical strain gages currently exist. Fiber & Sensor
Technologies (F&S) intends to develop a practical, reliable, and
cost-effective optical fiber strain gage based upon the patented extrinsic
Fabry-Perot interferometer (EFPI) invented by researchers at Virginia
Polytechnic Institute and State University (VPI&SU) in 1989. Using
sophisticated laser-based processing techniques, extremely small strains can
be measured with the EFPI strain gage.

Polyimide coatings are being applied to the hair-thin optical fibers during
fabrication using an optical fiber draw tower. During the Phase I SBIR
program, F&S and VPI&SU will fully characterize the strength, wear
resistance, and self-bonding properties of polyimide-coated optical fibers
and optical fiber sensors to determine the feasibility for further research
development, and commercialization during subsequent program phases.

 
The EFPI strain gage is fabricated using high-strength polyimide-coated
optical fibers and capillary tubes.

 
Draw tower used to fabricate polyimide-coated optical fibers.

Options for Commercialization

F&S and their development partner, the Fiber & Electro-Optics Research
Center (FEORC) at VPI&SU, have demonstrated the EFPI sensor in many military
and industrial laboratory-based applications.

In this NASA-sponsored SBIR program, F&S will now develop the EFPI strain
gage from the laboratory environment to its full market potential in the
industrial environment. The last crucial problem to be solved to obtain and
optical fiber strain gage capable of having a broad market appeal are the
sensor reliability and attachment issues. User-friendly sensor attachment
and operation procedures will allow the sensors to be utilized even by those
unfamiliar with optical fiber sensor methods.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Contact

If your company is interested in this technology, or if you desire
additional information, please contact:

Johnathan Greene
Fiber & Sensor Technologies, Inc.
250 Arbor Drive NE
Christiansburg, VA 24073
Phone: 703-382-7556
Fax: 703-382-8072
Email: fiber@bev.net

