 

Polymers for Space and Beyond

PAEBI, produced by Triton Systems, Inc. (TSI) under an exclusive patent
license from NASA, has been studied by TSI since early 1992. PAEBI has
evolved as a leading material for a number of commercial space applications
where resistance to atomic oxygen (A/O) erosion for structures deployed in
low earth orbit (LEO) is critical.

PAEBI is available from TSI as a powder; varnish (for adhesive bonding and
insulation purposes); polymer solution (for film casting); free standing
film; metalized film for thermal radiation; and, as a polymer thread for
stitching applications.

 

Potential Commercial Uses

Space Applications

   * Components in flexible solar array
   * A/O resistant coating
   * A/O resistant thread for connecting multi-layer insulation blankets
   * Arc tracking resistant electrical insulation for space

Non-Space Applications

   * Multi-chip module inter-layer dielectric
   * Flexible printed circuit substrate
   * Electrical wire insulation
   * High temp. wire and cable wrapping
   * Radiation resistant wire
   * Electric motor and generator insulation
   * Thermal control coating
   * Electrical insulation for nuclear reactors
   * Corona resistant films
   * Flexible solar arrays
   * Insulation resins
   * Fiber for Multi-Layer Insulation Blankets
   * Thermal radiator technology

Benefits

   * Exceptional adhesion to copper for high performance multi-chip modules
   * High corona resistance, making it suitable as a high temperature
     electrical insulator
   * High arc track resistance, making it suitable for wire insulation
   * Shown to be the most A/O resistant polymeric material tested to date
   * Processed into Free Standing film for delivery to Lockheed
   * Being implemented in Flexible Solar Array prototypes

The Technology

PAEBI, also known as TOR (Triton Oxygen Resistant), is a remarkable A/O
resistant high temperature and high performance polymer for potential use in
commercial space applications. PAEBI, unlike other polymers currently used,
incorporates phosphorous and oxygen linkages in its backbone. Upon
interaction with A/O, the polymer forms a phosphorous-oxygen skin that
protects it against A/O. Since, the P=O linkage is amply present in the
polymer, the A/O resist skin is self-replenishing.

TOR combines the dielectric properties and processability of polyimides, the
high temperature and structural properties of rigid polymers, and the
exceptional adhesive properties of benzimidazoles. It exhibits an
outstanding adhesion to copper and to polyimides. TOR, with an expected
theoretical coefficient of thermal expansion (CTE) of 20-25 ppm/deg. C is
intermediate to copper and polyimide.

In addition, TOR exhibits a high T (360 deg. C), a low dielectric
constant, a low dissipation factor. TOR is also easily processed from a
solution. The most unique feature of this polymer is that unlike polyimides,
it is available as a fully cyclized polymer that can be dissolved in a
solvent, it can be spun, cast or sprayed onto a substrate, and later, simply
dried.

A modified version, the PAEPO, has been shown by Los Alamos National
Laboratory and two other independent laboratories to be an exceptionally
effective thermal radiator. PAEPO, code named COR, is available in clear
form and can be used as potential replacement for FEP Teflon {Registered}.
COR exhibits substantially improved environmental stability in LEO while
being 45% lighter than Teflon {Registered}.

Options for Commercialization

Triton Systems seeks commercial partners for the joint development of this
technology. This commercial opportunity is part of the NASA-sponsored SBIR.
The objective of this program is to proactively involve the private sector
to ensure that the technology developed will have maximum commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Contact

If your company is interested in this technology, or if you desire
additional information, please contact:

Mr. Ross Haghighat
Triton Systems, Inc.
114 Turnpike Road
Chelmsford, MA 01824
Phone: 508-250-4200
Fax: 508-250-4533

