 

Toughened Polyimides for Aerospace and Electronic Applications

NASA Langley's SI polymer is a thermoplastic copolyimide. The SI polymer is
extremely tough, yet can be readily extruded, melt processed, compression
molded or machined into parts. The SI polymer can be blended with a wide
range of materials and under NAS1-20200, Imitec has developed technology to
produce the SI. A data base encompassing the polymers properties is
available. The SI can be used as a sprayable coating, and can be filled with
graphite, diamond, ceramics or metals.

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Tape Automated Bonding (TAB) Adhesive for Semiconductor Frames
   * Wear resistant coatings
   * Flexible circuit board cover layers
   * Buffer, moisture resistant coating for semiconductors, remote sensors
   * Binder for ceramics, carbon products
   * Conductive coatings

Benefits

   * Outstanding adhesion to Copper, Aluminum, Titanium, glass, ceramics
   * High modulus, exceptional fracture toughness, moldable, extrudable,
     sprayable
   * No water released during application or drying
   * Solvent, moisture, temperature and alkali resistant
   * 100% amorphous and non cracking
   * High temperature moldable binder for ceramics and carbon with low void
     content and high strength-solution and powder impregnation
   * Tough coatings and substrates for thin film multilayer flex circuits

The Technology

Polyimide polymers are used in a variety of high performance/high
temperature applications, adhesives, matrix resins for composites, films for
electronics and semiconductor coatings. Typically polyimides are processed
as amic acids which release water. The LaRC(TM)SI overcomes this as it is
processable in imidized form, and has outstanding moisture and thermal
properties.

The LaRC(TM)SI is suitable for mechanical applications. Parts made with this
moldable engineering plastic are tough, lightweight and durable. The
self-bonding properties of LaRC(TM)SI allow fillers to be added, increasing
hardness and compressive strength, lowering coefficient of thermal expansion
and decreasing friction. The composite parts made with SI and ceramics are
resulting in parts suitable for satellite mirrors and abrasion resistant
coatings in the textile industry. Carbon parts have a future in satellite
mirrors and heat sinks.

The LaRC(TM)SI has excellent chemical resistance and reliability. Parts can
operate at elevated temperatures and in hostile environments. LaRC(TM)SI's
high modulus, strength, and fracture toughness afford long-lasting parts
which resist cracking and fatigue. LaRC(TM)SI is resistant to hydrocarbons,
lubricants, anti-freeze, hydraulic fluids, and detergents. It has ultra-low
moisture pickup and can operate in hot-wet environments.

LaRC(TM)S's properties make it possible to inject or compression mold both
large and small parts which can be further machined or polished. LaRC(TM)SI
is a true amorphous thermoplastic. It is an excellent high-strength, hot
melt adhesive. Flexible circuits made from LaRC(TM)SI are finding use in
sensors.

Options for Commercialization

The LaRC(TM)SI technology is available for licensing. NASA Langley has
developed a data base, has applied for patents, and is developing
applications. The patents cover moldings, substrate coatings and adhesives.
In addition to licensing, the opportunity for cooperative research and
development with NASA is also available under a NASA Space Act Agreement.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Contact

If your company is interested in this technology, or if you desire
additional information, please contact:

Jack Keating
Imitec, Inc.
1990 Maxon Rd.
Schenectady, NY 12308
Phone: 518-374-9101

