 

High Sensitivity, Large Bandwidth Constant Voltage Anemometer (CVA) for
High-Speed Transition Research

A revolutionary, high-sensitivity, large bandwidth constant voltage
anemometer (CVA) system is being developed by Tao Systems under a NASA SBIR
Phase II Program for the Langley Research Center. Development of this
innovative instrument is in response to NASA's R&D efforts to measure
low-amplitude, high-frequency disturbances in laminar-to-turbulent
transition flows at supersonic and hypersonic speeds. Instrument design
features include the capability to obtain fluctuating mass flow and
temperature from hot wire probes at low overheat ratios without sacrificing
bandwidth. One-time adjustment and special features that include sensor
protection from burn-out make CVA user friendly and productive. Its compact
size and significantly lower sensitivity to EMI and RFI make it particularly
favorable for flight as well as ground test applications.

 
Prototype CVA unit

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Dynamic mass flow and temperature measurements in internal flows
     (pipes, ducts, ventilation system, heat exchangers, etc.)
   * Wind-tunnel and flight test applications in steady and unsteady flows
   * Dynamic mass flow and temperature measurements in jets and propulsion
     systems (air-intakes, compressors and turbines of turbomachinery and
     inlet manifold and exhaust pipes of automobiles, etc.)
   * Dynamic flow and temperature measurement system as an
     educational-cum-research tool for use in university and research
     laboratories

Benefits

   * High dynamic response over 400 KHz bandwidth
   * High productivity with high fidelity signals
   * Cable capacitance effects and bridge balancing eliminated (allows long
     cable lengths.)
   * Automatic, programmable overheats
   * Sensor protection from burn-out
   * No critical adjustments and one-time operational set up even for
     relatively large changes in flow and environmental conditions
   * Negligible set up time makes it especially useful for high-speed
     facilities with short run times
   * Small size and high level of automation makes it particularly suitable
     for flight test applications

The Technology

A revolutionary new constant voltage anemometer (CVA) has been developed by
Tao Systems. Large bandwidth with high front-end sensitivity are obtained by
operating the sensor at constant voltage with innovative use of the latest
advances in microelectronics. Maintaining the sensor at constant voltage
eliminates the conventional bridge network and thereby makes the CVA system
much simpler to operate: no complex set-up and tuning procedures,
elimination of long cables and capacitance matching, highly automated and
compact. The CVA has customer-specified, high-frequency response. A one-step
operation (switch on the system!!) versus elaborate set up and adjustment
procedures for conventional thermal anemometers makes CVA extremely useful
for transition research in flight as well as in high-speed facilities with
short run times.

Options for Commercialization

The NASA SBIR Program places maximum emphasis on the commercialization in
Phase III of products developed in Phase II. Tao Systems is actively
pursuing the commercial potential of the new large bandwidth anemometer and
is interested in teaming to manufacture CVA under license.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Contact

If your company is interested in this technology, or if you desire
additional information, please contact:

Mr. W. Don Harvey
Vice President
Tao of Systems Integration, Inc.
22 Enterprise Parkway, Suite 150
Hampton, VA 23666
Phone: 804-827-4434
Fax: 804-827-4706

