 

Broad-Based Computational Fluid Dynamics Technology

Under a Phase II SBIR Contract sponsored by the NASA Langley Research
Center, AeroSoft, Incorporated has developed an unstructured grid generation
technology using a variety of elements in the volumetric grid. In addition,
computer software for simulating fluid dynamic phenomena has been developed
and tested. This methodology offers a wide variety of physical models so
that numerical experiments can be conducted ranging from very low speeds to
hypersonic speeds including the effects of finite-rate chemistry and thermal
non-equilibrium. AeroSoft seeks a commercial partner to further expand the
range of use of these tools.

 
Grid for the Space Shuttle Main Engine Impeller

 
Wing/Pylon/Store Configuration

 
Chemistry Model Manager window

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Hypersonic and re-entry calculations
   * Inlets/nozzles/combustors
   * Nose-to-tail analysis for flight vehicles at all Mach numbers
   * Engine analysis
   * Automotive flows
        o internal and external flows
        o deployment of air bags
   * Store separation problems
   * Grid generation for structures problems
   * Blood flows, bio-medical simulations
   * Electronic cooling
   * HVAC computations

Benefits

   * Flexible geometric modeling capability
   * Wide range of thermo-chemical models
   * Runs on UNIX workstations and supercomputers
   * Graphical User Interface for ease of use
   * Global and space-marching modes with efficient memory management

The Technology

The modeling of detailed engineering problems gives rise to the need to be
able to represent general geometries with high fidelity and relative ease.
Although there are several approaches for generating volumetric grids with
polyhedra, these methods are limited in their modeling capability or in
their ability to adequately cluster elements in regions of interest. In
addition, the rapid development of graphics workstations and parallel
processors in a highly networked environment has resulted in important
changes in the underlying numerical algorithms used for simulation purposes.

For several years, AeroSoft, under contract support from the NASA Langley
Research Center, has been developing a technology that generates and makes
use of multiple control volume elements including triangles, quadrilaterals,
prisms, hexahedra, and tetrahedra. This software can be used for both
structures and fluid dynamic simulations. The surface grid shown for the
Space Shuttle Main Engine (SSME) is an example.

Computational fluid dynamics algorithms must also advance as grid generation
software offers more flexibility and as computing platforms evolve. AeroSoft
has developed a new CFD tool that takes advantage of multiple control volume
types for maximum geometric modeling flexibility. In addition, the software
includes the ability to partition a domain for better memory management and
for parallel processing on modern workstations and supercomputers. The
Wing/Pylon/Store simulation shown was run on an in-house workstation and
represents one of many possible applications of this software.

AeroSoft has developed a thermochemical library that can be used for
modeling a wide range of fluid mechanics problems including the flow of
perfect gases, mixtures, and fluids undergoing chemical reactions. A
graphical user interface (shown) has been developed to assist the user in
the selection of an appropriate chemistry model. Applications include
combustion phenomena, mixture efficiency, atmospheric re-entry, deployment
of air bags, and engine analysis.

Options for Commercialization

AeroSoft is seeking industrial partners to assist in the commercialization
and marketing of these products. The grid generation tool can be marketed
separately or combined with the CFD simulation software. Both software
products have been tested on UNIX platforms. The Graphical User Interface is
written in OSF/ Motif for a high degree of portability.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Contact

If your company is interested in this technology, or if you desire
additional information, please contact:

Robert W. Walters
Aerosoft, Incorporated
1872 Pratt Drive, Suite 1275
Blacksburg, VA 24060-6363
Phone: 804-231-6125
Fax: 804-231-6137

