 

User-Friendly Expert Stability Analysis System

Innovative Aerodynamic Technologies has developed a user-friendly expert
stability analysis system with NASA SBIR funding. This package, which is
called LAMDA (Laminar Airfoil Manager for Design and Analysis), offers an
innovative and revolutionary tool for low drag airfoil/wing design and
analysis. An airfoil flow analysis code, a boundary layer analysis code and
a boundary layer stability code are tied together under a graphical user
interface (GUI) to conduct an incompressible laminar boundary layer
stability analysis for airfoils and wings. LAMDA reduces the effort of
airfoil stability analysis from days to hours. An example of a
representative display of the LAMDA package is shown in the figure.

 
Laminar boundary layer stability analysis of NASA NLF(1)-0414F airfoil using
LAMDA graphical user interface package.

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Offers General Aviation engineers possibility of designing low drag
     laminar flow aircraft configurations
   * Offers increased productivity to commercial aircraft companies and
     research organizations for laminar flow airfoil/wing design
   * Learning tool for advanced aeronautics graduate and undergraduate
     students in universities

Benefits

   * Reduces turn around time for analysis from days to hours, thereby
     increasing productivity
   * Unique tool for the design/analysis of low drag laminar flow airfoils
   * Invaluable visualization tool to learn airfoil, boundary layer and
     stability analysis
   * Multi-platform based (both PC's and Workstations). Written in Motif
     running under X-windows
   * Increases the reliability of laminar airfoil design significantly
   * Provides modularity so test related computer codes could be added to
     the user-interface
   * Provides complete bookkeeping of user files related to the laminar flow
     analysis
   * NACA 4,5,6 Series airfoil generation capabilities integrated within the
     graphic user interface

The Technology

The quest for performance, fuel efficiency, range and speed in the current
global economic environment, has sparked a renewed interest in designing and
analyzing laminar flow wings for airplanes. The innovation developed is an
integrated, user-friendly graphical user interface (GUI) based laminar flow
analysis system.

This analysis system combines a flow analysis code, a boundary layer
mean-flow code and a laminar stability analysis code together to allow an
inexperienced user to conduct a reliable 2D incompressible stability
analysis. Data transfer interface programs were coded with crucial 'expert'
information for correct selection of instability frequencies. Control
programs were written to check and flag runtime data quality. File
bookkeeping functionality was provided. NACA airfoil generation programs are
provided as part of the package. An encompassing graphics package was
programmed to quickly plot relevant data. Program modularity is incorporated
for future analysis program expandability for the Phase II and Phase III
development.

Options for Commercialization

IAT seeks to commercialize this package with General Aviation enthusiast,
commercial aircraft companies, research organizations, and universities.
These commercialization/technological development opportunities are part of
the NASA SBIR program. An objective of the SBIR program is for NASA to
actively be involved in technology transfer while giving the small business
a chance to develop and commercialize innovative and technically risky
products.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Contact

If your company is interested in this technology, or if you desire
additional information, please contact:

Sally Viken
Innovative Aerodynamic Technologies
534 Wythe Creek Rd., Suite C
Poquoson, VA 23662
Phone: 804-868-4151
Fax: 804-898-8283

