 

Affordable General Aviation Integrated Cockpit Display System (Panel 2000)

The innovation is the synergistic system integration of current advanced
technologies such as GPS navigation solutions with low cost/volume/weight
automotive sensors, and commercial off-the-shelf Multi Function cockpit
graphical displays that present real and predictive virtual "highways in the
sky" and the x-y-z-time-energy temporal and spatial parameters of the
aircraft.

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Retrofit the 175,000 aircraft that are registered today and provide
     aftermarket products
   * Upgrade the light commuter class aircraft
   * Forward-fit all new-start aircraft and advanced general aviation class
     aircraft of tomorrow

Benefits

   * Safer all-weather aircraft operations
   * More fuel efficient operations using smarter decision aids and cockpit
     references
   * Easier initial and continuation VFR and IFR training
   * Less work load on ground-based ATC controllers and aviation support
   * Streamlined maintenance via on board recorders
   * Increased operational performance of agricultural, forestry, security,
     business, public service, and recreational aircraft
   * Revitalized General Aviation Transportation System (GATS)

The Technology

The general aviation aircraft of today and tomorrow are in the unique
position to benefit from the "third wave" of information processing
technology. Rapid advances and development of affordable and powerful
computers is making its way into the cockpit to increase pilot efficiency
and safety.

NASA Langley Research Center has taken the lead as a partner in the Advanced
General Aviation Transport Experiments (AGATE) program and is introducing
these advances directly into the GA cockpit. NASA has funded an STTR for
ARNAV Systems Inc. and Research Triangle Institute to design and develop the
cognitive and intuitive "glass cockpit" by integrating affordable GPS
navigation solutions and displays with EXPERT algorithms to assist and
burden-share the single pilot operational tasks of operating today's and
tomorrow's high perfomance light aircraft cockpits. Display functions
include primary flight, navigation, powerplant, and airframe systems
presentation.

The bottom line is a safer, more economical and easier aircraft to operate
that capitalizes on high technology to perform the mission.

Options for Commercialization

Cirrus Design seeks to commercialize this package with General Aviation
enthusiast and commercial aircraft companies.

These commercialization/technological development opportunities are part of
the NASA SBIR program. An objective of the SBIR program is for NASA to
actively be involved in technology transfer while giving the small business
a chance to develop and commercialize innovative and technically risky
products.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

 

Contact

If you are interested in this technology, or if you would like additional
information, please contact:

Dean Vogel
Cirrus Design
Duluth International Airport
4515 Taylor Circle
Duluth, MN 55811
Phone: 218-727-2737 Fax: 218-727-2148

 

