 

Electronic Angle-of-Attack and Stall Warning Device

A completely new approach using the latest advances in microelectronics and
flow diagnostic techniques have been used to develop an electronic
angle-of-attack and stall warning device for civil and military aircraft
applications. The new device, developed by Tao Systems under a NASA SBIR
Phase II Program for the Langley Research Center, has no moving parts and
possesses high dynamic response characteristics. The probe and micro-thin
hot-film sensors can be fully conformal with the surface of the flight
vehicle and their operation is independent of outside air temperature,
pressure, and density changes resulting from variations in flight conditions
(altitude). The innovative approach can also be extended to obtain the
angle-of-side slip by mounting the probe in the vertical plane (e.g., on the
vertical tail).

 
Prototype AOA sensor probe on aircraft

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Inexpensive angle-of-attack, side-slip, stall-warning device for GA,
     commercial, and military aircraft
   * Non-intrusive local flow angularity measuring device for
     wind/water-tunnel testing
   * Gust alleviation monitoring
   * Wind-direction indicator
   * Instantaneous, local angle-of-attack measuring device for unsteady
     aerodynamic applications (e.g., flutter of flexible wings, HSCT,
     missiles, large transport aircraft, sail boats, etc.)

Benefits

   *
   * High dynamic response
   * No mechanical moving parts
   * High signal-to-noise ratio
   * Automated and compact
   * Independent of flight altitude, speed, and outside air temperature,
     pressure, and density
   * Less sensitive to RFI and EMI

The Technology

The totally new generation of angle-of-attack technology introduced by this
product is based on electronically locating the leading-edge stagnation
point (where the airflow attaches itself to the flight vehicle) and relating
it to the direction of motion (see Fig. 1). An array of practically
non-intrusive, micro thin hot-film sensors (another innovation by NASA
Langley) is operated by a bank of constant voltage anemometers (CVA, a Tao
Systems invention) to identify the stagnation point with a logic circuit
based on Tao Systems' patented flow diagnostic techniques. A schematic of
the innovative system is shown in Fig. 2.

 

The electronic angle-of-attack system has built-in multiple redundancy both
in sensors and in operating hardware system (anemometers, analog
processors.) The same technology can be extended to obtain angle-of-side
slip and electronic stall warning devices. The new device has no moving
parts and offers high dynamic response, making it particularly useful for
high frequency response to sudden aircraft maneuvers and in the presence of
safety hazards such as wind shear, icing and turbulence caused by gusts.

Options for Commercialization

The NASA SBIR Program places maximum emphasis on the commercialization in
Phase III of products developed in Phase II. Tao Systems has entered into an
Agreement of Intent to market with Avionics Specialties, Inc., a
Charlottesville, Virginia based company well known for its specialized
manufacture of angle-of-attack devices for military and civilian aircraft.
This effort is part of Tao Systems' initiative to proceed with its
commitment on Phase III commercialization. The revolutionary new approach to
flow measurements also offers other applications for commercial
exploitation.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Contact

If your company is interested in this technology, or if you desire
additional information, please contact:

Mr. W. Don Harvey
Vice President
Tao of Systems Integration, Inc.
22 Enterprise Parkway, Suite 150
Hampton, VA 23666
Phone: 804-827-4434
Fax: 804-827-4706

