 

Affordable General Aviation Electronic Pilot Weather Reporting System
(EPiREPs)

Electronic Pilot Weather Reporting System (EPiREPs) is a system of
collecting real time weather data directly from sensors on a flying aircraft
and datalinking it to the ground automatically for observation and
forecasting use. Upper air (3000-18,000 ft) wind, temperature, humidity,
icing, turbulence, and lightning detection are the target parameters. Upper
air is where severe summer and winter convective and storm activity spawns
and develops. All data will be geographically tagged by GPS to pinpoint the
measurements.

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Retrofit existing general aviation aircraft with the state-of-the-art
     sensors and provide aftermarket products

   * Forward fit all new aircraft including the advanced GA aircraft

   * Network the resolved weather data products to other National
     Transportation System users such as trucks, rail, marine, forestry,
     emergency medical services, school buses, and recreation facilities

Benefits

   * Better national forecasting and severe storm warning for all aspects of
     life
   * Increased safety of flight and transportation
   * Increased business efficiency by avoidance/rerouting/rescheduling
   * Increased EMA response and disaster recovery through intelligent
     weather knowledge
   * Value-added to the U.S. Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and public benefit

The Technology

General Aviation (GA) adds $45 billion directly to the GDP of the U.S. each
year. Bad weather detracts $8 billion from the GDP output by causing delays
and safety hazards. The National Weather Service has a $4 billion
modernization program underway to significantly increase the "nowcast"
capabilities of the system by upgrading sensors such as radar and airfield
observation automation. Still, extensive UPPER AIR DATA DOES NOT EXIST
(rawinsondes only account for 200 soundings per day and they are expensive,
"intrusive" devices). Since over 70% of the FAA traffic is GA and is the
predominant force (tens of thousands) in the air at any one moment, 24 hours
per day, using GA aircraft as automated airborne data collection platforms
yields a win-win scenario.

NASA has taken the lead to make EPiREPs a reality by funding ARNAV Systems
Inc. through Phase I and II of EPiREPs development. ARNAVs innovation is the
use of commercial off-the-shelf, low cost/volume/weight sensors and
telecommunications systems integration experience to accomplish the task.

Options for Commercialization

ARNAV Systems seeks to commercialize this package with General Aviation
enthusiast, and commercial aircraft companies.

These commercialization/technological development opportunities are part of
the NASA SBIR program. An objective of the SBIR program is for NASA to
actively be involved in technology transfer while giving the small business
a chance to develop and commercialize innovative and technically risky
products.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Contact

If you are interested in the EPiREPs package, or if you would like
additional information, please contact:

Frank Williams ARNAV Systems Pierce County Airport 16923 Meridian East
Puyallup, WA 98373 Phone: 206-848-3502 Fax: 206-848-3555

