 

Titanium Strips, Foils, and Fibers

An innovative process has been developed that can make low cost net-shape
titanium products available to component manufacturers for the automotive,
aerospace, and chemical industries. Ribbon Technology Corporation (Ribtec)
casts titanium alloy strips, ribbons, and fibers by its proprietary Melt
Overflow Rapid Solidification Technology (MORST), developed with SBIR
support from NASA. Titanium foils have been cold rolled from Ribtec cast
strips, without hot working, thereby reducing processing costs. Porous metal
panels have been successfully felted and sintered from Ribtec cast fibers
resulting in high surface area electrodes that were unavailable before this
technology was developed. Titanium fibers and strips are commercially
available from Ribtec and the titanium strip casting technology is available
for joint ventures or licensing.

 
Electrode structures produced from Ribtec fibers

 
Honeycomb produced from Ribtec strip

Potential Commercial Uses

   *
   * Foils for honeycomb structures used in aerospace components
   * Foils/Strip for metal matrix composites for aerospace and sporting
     goods
   * Ribbons for wound structures for aerospace
   * Acoustic media used in aerospace and automotive components
   * Electrode structures for chemical processing
   * Electrocatalyst supports used in chemical processing

Benefits

   * Purity - Ribtec's MORST process yields low interstitial, high purity
     alloys with refined microstructures.
   * Near Net Shape Processing - Eliminates the need for hot working
     operations found in conventional ingot metallurgy practice.
   * Product Forms - Unique alloys; strip products up to 100 mm (4 in.)
     wide, 0.5 mm (0.020 in.) thick and 4 m (13 ft.) long; fiber products
     down to 0.1 mm (0.004 in.) effective diameter.

The Technology

Ribtec's Melt Overflow Rapid Solidification Technology is a process for
rapidly quenching a molten pool of liquid metal onto a rotating heat
extracting substrate. The simplicity and versatility of this system allows a
variety of net-shape and near-net-shape forms to be produced with unique
structural properties. Using plasma arc cold hearth melting systems, Ribtec
can melt and cast reactive and exotic metals in inert atmospheres yielding
high purity alloy fiber and strip. MORST is an excellent process for casting
strip from alloys that are difficult and costly to form by rolling, and is a
low cost, high volume way to mass produce metal fibers.

University, Sulzer Innotec and Wright Patterson Air Force Base, has
successfully processed its as-cast titanium strip to 0.1 mm (0.004 in.) foil
gauge. Titanium foils are used in honeycomb structures in aircraft, and in
titanium matrix composites for aircraft and sporting goods.

Cast titanium fibers have been successfully felted and sintered to make
porous metal panels. The panels can be used as electrocatalyst supports in
the chemical process industries or as acoustic media in the aerospace
industry. Through the SBIR contracts, Ribtec, in collaboration with NASA
Langley Research Center, Texas Instruments, Ohio State.

Options for Commercialization

Ribtec seeks partners to cooperatively develop commercial products based on
the titanium strip and fiber products. The titanium strip casting technology
is available for joint ventures or licensing.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Contact

If your company is interested in this technology, or if you desire
additional information, please contact:

Thomas Gaspar
Ribbon Technology Corp.
P.O. Box 30758
Columbus, OH 43230
Phone: 614-864-5444
Fax: 614-864-5305

