 

Miniature Magnetic Surface Crawler with Color Zoom Camera and a Lightweight
Pan & Tilt

Visual Inspection Technologies Inc. (VIT) is currently developing a
miniature color zoom camera system with pan & tilt that will be mounted on a
remotely operated magnetic crawler. The system will play and integral part
in NASA's plans to inspect portions of the Shuttle Launch Platform for
damage caused during the launch. Previously this area of the launch platform
was inaccessible or very difficult to reach.

The project demands lightweight components, a high resolution real-time
video image and seamless integration with the magnetic crawler. Zoom
capabilities and a high resolution image will allow for highly detailed
video images while auto camera functions and a pan & tilt will allow for
versatility and easy operation. This combined technology offers a multitude
of remote inspection, sensing, mapping and access applications.

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Tank and pressure vessel inspection for refineries and plants
   * Ship hull applications (single or double hulls) or construction and
     maintenance
   * Nuclear Steam Generator inspection and radiological mapping
   * Large-bore piping inspection for oil distributors and plants
   * Hydro-electric pen stock inspections
   * Confined space inspection
   * Hazardous area inspection/viewing
   * Electrical transformer inspection for utilities

Benefits

   * Manless entry
   * Eliminates Scaffolding
   * Documents inspection
   * Improved safety
   * Tolerant of adverse/dangerous environments

The Technology

Technological advancements are needed to insure that the magnetic crawler
has a high degree of mobility while being securely fastened and to
incorporate a powerful but lightweight color zoom camera and pan & tile
system. Additional sensor packages may include ultrasonics, paint thickness,
oxygen, radiation and profilometry.

Visual Inspection Technologies, Inc. (VIT) presently manufactures a wide
variety of packaged miniature color cameras. Throughout the 80's,
advancements in CCD chip technology, electro mechanical components and
design engineering have allowed VIT to produce camera systems that have
continually decreased in size and weight while increasing picture quality.

Recently, VIT developed the Ca-Zoom camera which is a small lightweight
color zoom camera with auto focus, auto iris and macro capabilities. The
camera weighs only eight ounces and has an 8:1 (6-48mm) power zoom lens,
420,000 pixels or 460 H TV line output CCD imager, S-Video (Y-C) or
composite (RS-170A) outputs and is RS-232 addressable and programmable. It
can be packaged according to application requirements. To complement the
weight of this camera, VIT also developed a lightweight and waterproof pan &
tilt system and positional (angular) encoders/sensors.

The advanced magnetic crawler for the NASA SBIR project is being supplied by
SRI International. VIT manufacturers its own magnetically attached metal
surface crawler which is currently used to visually and ultrasonically test
large above-ground storage tanks, large diameter pipes and nuclear steam
generators.

Options for Commercialization

The combined technologies of the remotely-operated magnetic metal surface
crawler with miniature zoom inspection camera with pan & tilt is presently
available for commercial use. Opportunities introduced by any company that
wishes to further develop this technology for special applications are
welcome. Visual Inspection Technologies presently works with several
commercial partners on various projects.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Contact

If your company is interested in this technology, or if you desire
additional information, please contact:

Bruce Pellegrino, General Manager
Visual Inspection Technologies, Inc.
27-2 Ironia Road
Flanders, NJ 07836-9172
Phone: 201-927-0033 Ext. 801
Fax: 201-927-3207

