 

Adaptive Predictive Controller

A new type of adaptive predictive controller, which is well suited for
controlling complex systems with large numbers of inputs and outputs using
standard PC hardware, is now available. The Orbital Research Intelligent
Control Algorithm (ORICA) has shown excellent performance in controlling a
variety of simulated and physical complex, time-varying, and non-linear
systems.

The identifier module of ORICA has also been shown to be a powerful tool
that can save thousands of design hours. This module can estimate the system
model, on-line, while the controller module safely controls the system. This
allows for efficient monitoring and recording of the system's dynamic
characteristics (even for unstable systems) at each sampling interval. The
transfer functions can then be easily derived from the output of the
identifier module.

 
ORICA controller structure

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Flight Control Systems, particularly for systems with large number of
     sensors and actuators
   * Automatic Delivery of Drugs (or anesthetic compounds)
   * Robotics, particularly in remote or hazardous environments
   * Autonomous or Intelligent Vehicles
   * Machine Tools (Milling, Rolling, Machining)
   * Power Systems
   * Process Plants

Benefits

ORICA provides excellent real time control for dynamic systems. It uses
standard PC hardware to control the following systems, which are difficult
or impossible for traditional controllers to control.

   * Multi-input/multi-output complex systems
   * Non-minimum phase systems
   * Lightly damped systems
   * Systems with long and/or varying time delays
   * Noisy systems
   * Non-linear systems
   * Systems with time varying parameters (e.g., damping ratio)

The Technology

Extensive work has been performed in academia in the areas of adaptive and
predictive control. However, these advanced controllers have only found
limited commercial and military use due to their computational intensity and
lack of robustness. The ORICA controller eliminates much of the
computational complexity of these controllers. It is based upon algorithms
developed by Case Western Reserve University and Orbital Research Inc. These
algorithms exploit a special matrix representation to obtain substantial
reductions in the amount of computation (floating point operations). Its
unique block predictive structure provides gains in computational
efficiencies that vary with the cube of the number of sensors, square of the
model order, and linearly with the number of actuators and horizon look
ahead.

ORICA is two generations beyond the current state-of-the-art controllers
(Auto-Tuning PIDs). It adds predictive features to an adaptive controller
and its C language computer code is easily transportable among hardware
platforms. When combined with fast DSP or PC based hardware, ORICA provides
the first practical, computationally efficient, robust, adaptive, real-time
feedback control technique for multivariable time-varying dynamic systems.

In addition, the adaptive and predictive features of ORICA have been shown
to be very effective in providing excellent control of an airfoil subjected
to flutter condition at the Transonic Dynamics Tunnel, located at NASA
Langley Research Center (LaRC).

Options for Commercialization

This technology opportunity is being developed under NASA SBIR funding.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Contact

If your company is interested in this technology, or if you desire
additional information, please contact:

Robert N. Schmidt, President
Orbital Research Inc.
11000 Cedar Ave., Suite 461
Cleveland, OH 44106-3052
Phone: 216-791-6720
Fax: 216-229-3236
Email: ori-cmdi@ix.netcom.com

