 

Advanced Engine Management and Predictive Analysis System

Vision Micro Design Inc. is developing an innovative general aviation
cockpit Engine Management and Predictive Analysis System (EMPAS) capable of
providing detailed information on current engine status and prediction of
future engine status including potential engine failure.

The EMPAS system will utilize a form of predictive artificial intelligence
to advise the pilot and suggest possible corrective action. Strategically
located sensors in conjunction with sophisticated software will allow the
prediction of impending engine failure.

This system innovatively integrates newly developed and commercially
available; software, hardware, sensors and display technologies currently
produced or under development by Vision Micro Design Inc. The use of these
commercially available parts promotes the successful commercialization of
this product.

The commercial potential of EMPAS is in providing the General Aviation
industry with a cost effective engine monitoring system heretofore only
available, in part, to the airline industry. This technology is usable at
all levels of General Aviation, from the kit plane industry up the business
class twin engine aircraft.

Potential Commercial Uses

   * General aviation aircraft - Single engine, multi-engine, OEM, new and
     after market sales
   * Maritime - Cruise ships, tugs, motor yachts, freighters
   * Commercial vehicles - Delivery vehicles, taxies, buses, any revenue
     producing vehicle
   * Military vehicles - Tanks, auxiliary power units, diesel generators

 
VM1000 Engine management system

Benefits

   * Higher operational efficiency - Better information means better
     efficiency
   * Higher engine reliability - Warning systems avoid operator abuse of the
     engine
   * Better utilization - Lower downtime resulting from a careful engine
     operated engine
   * Lower maintenance costs - Reduced engine wear and abuse means lower
     total operating costs

The Technology

Microprocessor Electronics - Advanced microprocessors allow the design of
'smart systems' capable of analyzing large amounts of information extremely
fast. Automated decisions can then be made about the monitored engine health
and the pilot can be informed accordingly. Because of the increased
performance per dollar of today's microprocessor, this technology
application results in an affordable commercial product that has immediate
benefits to the general public.

Digital Signal Processing - Digital Signal Processing is the science of
capturing and processing an analog signal (one that has an infinite number
of possible voltages, as opposed to digital usually having only two voltage
levels) by using high speed digital sample and hold electronics. These
technologies are now very affordable with extremely high performance and
quality allowing their application in this system.

Advanced Sensor Systems - Precision sensors for monitoring temperature,
pressure, vibration, voltage and frequency are utilized to process the
signals from various areas of the engine. This information is processed by
the digital electronics and conveyed to the pilot. Sensor technologies
developed both commercially and at NASA research centers can be utilized to
fill these requirements.

Options for Commercialization

Vision Micro Designs seeks to commercialize the Engine Management and
Predictive Analysis System with the General Aviation enthusiast and
commercial aircraft companies.

This commercialization opportunity has been facilitated by the NASA
STTR/SBIR program. These programs provide needed resources to promote
successful commercialization of a product. Without these programs, products
such as these would be too expensive and take too long to develop and
market, and the benefit to the public would be lost.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Contact

If your company is interested in this technology, or if you desire
additional information, please contact:

Lance G. Turk
Vision Micro Design Inc.
5501 East Road
Bellingham, WA 98226
Phone: 360-398-1833
Fax: 360-398-1663

