 

Neural Network Flight Control Technology

Accurate Automation has developed and tested artificial neural network
flight controllers. This neurocontroller represents the first of a new
generation of smart actuator controllers. This smart actuator
neurocontroller will eventually be integrated into a three part control
system consisting of outer-loop control, mid-level vehicle and propulsion
control, and the inner-level actuator neurocontroller.

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Controls:
          Digital Flight Controls
          General Controller Methodology
   * Aircraft:
          General Aviation
          Commercial Transports
          Military
          Space Flight

Benefits

   * Completely independent of the dynamics of the actuator-surface system
     that it is controlling
   * Adapts to unexpected loads
   * Uses Adaptive Critic Design Methodology which allows an engineer to
     design the controller according to a users qualitative performance
     measure while maintaining stability
   * Allows the incorporation of pilot experience
   * Neural Network Processor is fully digital, MIMD, 8K Neurons per
     processor, 32K weights per processor, 140 million connections per
     second per processor (35 Mhz), PC and VME versions
   * Neural Network Processor can also be used to significantly speed up
     other applications of artificial neural networks

The Technology

The actuator control technology incorporates an adaptive control structure
for the adaptation of the controller parameters and artificial neural
networks to learn optimal initial parameters and adaptation rates. An
actuator control testbed has been built. This system has an actual aircraft
actuator attached to an aileron and is currently interfaced to a Silicon
Graphics workstation.

The neural network software system will be implemented on the Accurate
Automation Corporation Neural Network Processor. The Accurate Automation
Corporation Neural Network Processor (NNP) was designed specifically to run
artificial neural network software at very high speed. Each Sparse Matrix
NNP is capable of implementing 8,192 neurons with 32,768 interconnections.
The computational capability of a single processor is 140 million
connections per second (35 MHz). An 8 processor Multiple
Instruction/Multiple Date (MIMD) NNP system is capable of over one billion
connections per second. The NNP architecture is extremely flexible and any
neuron is capable of interconnecting with any other neuron in the system.
The NNP is implemented on both VME and IBM compatible cards. The NNP
supports two I/O buses, one for interprocessor communication and the other
for mapping NNP memory into the memory map of a supporting mother processor.
Each processor in the NNP is controlled by a RISC-like instruction set. NNP
software development is supported by an Assembler, a Neural Network
Translator, and the AAC Neural Network Toolbox.

Options for Commercialization

Accurate Automation Corporation seeks other corporations to license these
technologies or as partners in the further developments of these
technologies.

This commercialization opportunity is a part of NASA Langley's SBIR-funded
Technology program. The objectives of this program is to proactively involve
industry to maximize technology applications.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Contact

If your company is interested in this technology, or if you desire
additional information, please contact:

Robert Pap, President
Accurate Automation Corporation
7001 Shallowford Road
Chattanooga, TN 37421
Phone: 615-894-4646
Fax: 615-894-4645

