 

New Airfield Pavement Surface Treatments

Several promising, new pavement surface treatments have been developed which
offer improved aircraft and ground vehicle handling performance particularly
under adverse weather conditions. These treatments are cost-effective,
durable, easy to maintain, and provide superior wet friction performance to
meet most aircraft operational requirements as well as passenger car/truck
highway travel demands. The most promising treatments under development and
evaluation are new grooving and grinding techniques, improved interlocking
concrete paver block designs, and a shot peening treatment which can provide
enhanced macro- and micro-texture surface characteristics and also
efficiently remove rubber buildup from runway touchdown areas.

 
NASA B-737 During Flooded Runway Test

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Airfield aprons, taxiways, and runways
   * Highway wet skidding accident sites
   * Urban intersections requiring high friction surfaces
   * Pedestrian walkways, ramps, swimming pools, and loading platforms
     exposed to weather conditions

Benefits

   * Cost effective in terms of longer performance period and reduction in
     accidents
   * Ease of repair/maintenance with paver block installation
   * Durability that impacts life cycle costs
   * Greater runway rubber removal efficiency achieved by shot peening
     method and it's more EPA acceptable than other available techniques
   * Greater wet friction capability which minimizes tire hydroplaning
     potential and reduces skidding accidents

The Technology

The value of obtaining and maintaining good pavement texture has been
recognized for some time since it directly influences aircraft and ground
vehicle handling performance. Most commercial runways and many highway
sections have been grooved or grinded to enhance wet friction capability and
ride comfort.

Researchers at several pavement industry groups, universities, private
businesses, and NASA Langley Research Center have been involved in
developing and evaluating improved grooving and grinding techniques as well
as concrete paver block designs and shot peening treatments. Much of this
ongoing effort has been focused on improving wet pavement friction
performance together with providing acceptable tire wear. New improved
designs, installation techniques, equipment modifications, and application
procedures can be tested and evaluated at Langley's Aircraft Landing
Dynamics Facility or the special research runway at NASA Wallops Flight
Facility on the eastern shore of Virginia.

Options for Commercialization

NASA seeks industry and academia partners to cooperatively develop improved
pavement surface treatments that will adequately meet the transportation
needs well into the 21st century. Humble Equipment Company Inc. of Ruston,
Louisiana continues to improve, through experience and job requirements, the
skidabrader machine for shot peening applications. Preparations are underway
for a joint NASA/academia/industry improved airfield paver block design test
program using the Aircraft Landing Dynamics Facility for tire load/friction
evaluations. The grooving and grinding industry association has also
promoted several equipment modifications and installation technique changes
to improve their product's demand.

This commercialization opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer
Program. The objective of this program is to proactively involve the private
and academia sectors in NASA's programs to ensure that the technology
developed will have maximum commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

