 

Cooled Structures Technology - Thermally and Structurally Efficient Devices

Thermally and structurally efficient heat transfer devices have been
developed which can reduce peak temperatures, temperature gradients, and
thermal stresses and distortions. Three heat transfer mechanisms are
highlighted: Transpiration, heat pipe, and oscillating coolant heat
exchangers.

 

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Electronic component cooling (e.g., circuit boards, computer chips,
     etc.)
   * Waste heat recovery
   * Distortion-and/or stress-free structures
   * Uniform temperature ovens for crystal growth

Benefits

   * Performance: The devices mentioned above may result in very efficient
     heat transfer, automatic temperature control, and lightweight
     distortion and stress-free structures.
   * Key Features: Transpiration: very effective in cooling plus blocks heat
     transfer to a structure heated convectively.
        o Heat pipe: self-contained heat transfer device which transports
          heat very effectively by the evaporation and condensation of a
          working fluid. Does not require any external means for pumping.
        o Oscillating Coolant: transports heat very effectively by
          oscillating a working fluid and, thus, reducing the local boundary
          layer thickness and increasing the effective heat transfer
          coefficient.
   * Fabrication: The above mentioned devices can be fabricated using
     standard metal forming and joining fabrication techniques.
     Miniaturization can be accomplished using standard methods for
     fabricating micro-machines.

The Technology

Three areas of cooled structures technology are highlighted: heat pipe
cooling, transpiration cooling, and innovative regenerative cooling methods.
This technology is useful when components that are in heated environments
must be kept within restricted temperature ranges. Heat pipes are closed
cooling devices that require no external power. They consist of a structure
that has 3 features: an internal working fluid, a vapor space, and a
capillary wick. Heat is transported from one area (called the evaporator) to
another area (called the condenser) in the following manner. Heat absorbed
in the evaporator region changes the phase of the working fluid from liquid
to gas. The gas flows in the vapor space to the condenser region and changes
phase from gas to liquid, thereby releasing the latent heat. The condensed
liquid is transported to the evaporator using the capillary pumping action
of the wick.

Heat pipes currently have many applications such as cooling electronic
components, and cooling structures in severe, oxidizing environments.

Transpiration cooling requires a liquid or gas coolant that flows through
the surface of a severely heated component and exits the component from the
heated surface through small pores in the surface. The coolant will both
reduce the convective part of any heating and also removes heat from the
surface in a very efficient way. Transpiration cooling is presently used in
local regions of commercial turbine and rocket engines.

One innovative regenerative cooling method is the Oscillating Coolant Heat
Exchanger which has recently been awarded 2 patents. This device behaves
like a mechanically driven heat pipe, however it is not limited by the
operational constraints that often limit the usefulness of heat pipes. The
device has not been applied commercially to date.

Options for Commercialization

NASA seeks industry partners to cooperatively develop commercial products
based on various Langley held patents for Cooled Structures Technology and
Thermal Devices.

This commercial opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer Program.
The objective of this program is to proactively involve the private sector
in NASA's programs to ensure that the technology developed will have maximum
commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

