 

Variable Geometry Truss Manipulator Arm

An innovative Robotic manipulator design has been developed at NASA Langley
for space robotics missions. This unique manipulator design is much more
maneuverable and stronger than traditional manipulators. A novel joint
design permits the geometry changing mechanism to be embedded in the battens
of the truss structure.

The Variable Geometry Truss (VGT) is a truss mechanism that functions like a
two axis gimbal in a truss manipulator arm. In applications requiring even
greater dexterity, VGT joints may be chained together, one after another.
The manipulator has been linked to a computer to allow an operator to orient
the manipulator using a conventional joystick. The result is a very strong
dexterous manipulator that offers advantages over traditional manipulators
for a wide variety of industrial applications.

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Dexterous manipulator for nuclear waste clean up
   * Deployable, mobile, stowable truss beam
   * Replacement for a two axis gimbal with greater load-carrying capability
   * Antenna pointing and tracking mechanism
   * Motion simulator for a carnival ride
   * Joint for a truss type robot arm with vibration suppression capability

 

Benefits

   * Strength: The deployed truss is much stronger than conventional
     manipulators.
   * Stowable: Unlike conventional manipulators, the VGT is stowable.
   * Dexterous: The embedded joint actuators permit a wide variety of arm
     orientations.
   * Manufacturable: The system uses many off the shelf parts. The special
     parts do not require expensive machining.
   * User Friendly: The joystick provides a user friendly environment.

The Technology

The variable geometry truss manipulator arm is a truss structure that uses a
variable geometry truss (VGT) to provide joint rotations. The VGT is a truss
mechanism with three variable length battens in it's mid-plane. The three
variable length battens form a triangle and connect to two other triangular
planes (one on each side of the mid-plane) by struts called cross longeron.
Six cross longerons, in a Stewart platform configuration, connect each
triangular end plane to the triangular mid-plane so that there are twelve
cross longerons. The two triangular planes on each side of the variable
length battens mid-plane contain three fixed length battens. Moving in the
longitudinal direction along the VGT, first three fixed length battens are
connected by six cross longerons to the three variable length battens. Next
the three variable length battens are connected by six cross longerons to
the remaining three fixed length battens.

The three variable length battens allow the orientation of one end plane
with respect to the other end plane to be changed in a controlled manner.
This is accomplished by solving the inverse kinematics of the VGT which
relate the lengths of the variable length battens to the relative
orientation of the two end planes. These equations have been programmed in C
and executed on a 486 based PC system. Given a command corresponding to the
desired relative orientation of the two ends, the controller changes the
length of the variable length battens to accomplish this orientation.

Options for Commercialization

This technology opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer Program.
The program seeks to stimulate development of commercial applications from
NASA developed technology. The basic elements of the manipulator has been
designed and fabricated at LaRC. A patent for this technology has been
obtained. NASA is seeking applicants to license the technology and/or
partnerships to further broaden and refine the technology for industrial
applications.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

