 

Carbon-Carbon Engine Components

The Carbon-Carbon Piston is a new piston concept which has been developed to
overcome a number of shortcomings of aluminum pistons. There are several
advantages of a carbon-carbon piston: they operate at higher temperatures
without piston failure; have greater reliability at high power output
levels; they can be designed to have less reciprocating mass because
carbon-carbon is stronger and lighter than aluminum; and they use leaner
fuel-air mixtures to achieve higher fuel economy and much lower hydrocarbon
emissions.

 

Potential Commercial Uses

   * High-performance, light-weight internal combustion gasoline or diesel
     engines
   * High-performance automotive engines
   * Racing engines (NASCAR, Formula One, Motorcross, Go-cart, etc.)
   * Oilless piston applications (natural gas pumps, etc.)
   * Snowmobiles, motorcycles, hovercraft, jet-skis, and other recreational
     vehicle engines
   * Ultralight aircraft engines, outboard motors, and other weight critical
     applications

 

Benefits

   * Has a lower density than aluminum alloy, lower reciprocating mass
   * Has a low coefficient of thermal expansion
   * Maintains its strength and stiffness at operating temperatures over
     2500 deg. F
   * Has tailorable thermal conductivity
   * Has excellent resistance to thermal shock
   * Has greater reliability at high-power output levels
   * Can use leaner fuel-air mixtures to achieve higher fuel economy, lower
     hydrocarbon emissions, and/or greater power output

 

The Technology

Pistons used in high-performance internal combustion engines are usually
made of an aluminum alloy. The strength and stiffness of aluminum alloys
decrease rapidly as material temperatures rise above 350 deg. F (the melting
temperature of aluminum alloy is approximately 1100 deg. F) and the
coefficient of thermal expansion of aluminum alloy is relatively large.

High-performance engines are generally designed to have high power-to-weight
ratios and to operate at moderately high power output levels for extended
periods or at maximum power output levels for short periods.

High-performance engines operate with exhaust gas temperatures at about 1275
deg. F. If exhaust gas temperatures exceed 1350 deg. F because of lean
fuel-air mixture conditions or if pressure loads dramatically increase
because of detonation, piston failure is likely.

Options for Commercialization

This technology opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer Program.
The program seeks to stimulate development of commercial applications from
NASA-developed technology. The carbon-carbon piston has been fabricated and
tested at Langley. The program goal is to advance the state of the art by
developing ringed and ringless carbon-carbon pistons, carbon-carbon liners,
and carbon-carbon engine components. A patent for this technology has been
obtained. NASA is seeking applicants to license the technology and/or
partnerships to further broaden and refine the technology.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

