 

Broadband Noise Absorbers

A broadband noise absorber was developed under a NASA grant to Georgia
Technical Research Institute (GTRI) for potential use in future aircraft
engines. The ceramic microspheres act as a bulk absorber, providing
broadband noise attenuation. However, unlike traditional bulk absorbers such
as fiberglass and foam, the microspheres can be used in high-temperature
environments up to 1200 degrees Fahrenheit. The microsphere bulk absorber
can also be tuned to a particular noise source by varying the geometry of
individual spheres.

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Noise absorption in high temperature environments like steel mills or
     industrial furnace smoke stacks
   * Noise abatement in transportation systems such as subways, trains or
     highway acoustic barriers
   * Noise attenuation in industries such as mining, utility companies or
     manufacturing sites

 

Benefits

   * Attenuates broadband noise sources
   * Conforms to any geometry
   * Withstands high temperatures
   * Can be tailored to a specific noise source

 

The Technology

Proof of concept testing has shown small hollow spheres to be effective for
broadband noise attenuation due to their bulk absorber properties. Like
conventional bulk absorbers, the microspheres present high torturosity
values to incident sound waves and use an overall depth equal to a quarter
wavelength of the lowest frequency to be absorbed. However, unlike
traditional bulk absorbers, the microspheres can be tailored to a particular
noise source. This is accomplished by incorporating orifices in the
spherical shells, creating Helmholtz-resonator-type micro-absorbers. In
addition, all dimensions of the sphere's geometry (such as shell diameter,
shell thickness and orifice diameter) can be varied to create preferential
absorption tailored to a specified acoustic field. Thus a broadband noise
source with dominant tonal characteristics could be effectively attenuated.

The microspheres have another distinct advantage in that they are
conformable to any geometry; they can be poured into any shape container.
However, a limiting factor for potential commercial applications is that
they have not been tested in dirty environments, so their wicking and
clogging properties have not been studied.

 

Options for Commercialization

This technology opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer Program.
The program seeks to stimulate development of commercial applications from
NASA-developed technology. A patent application has been filed on this
technology, and NASA is actively seeking applicants to license and/or form
partnerships to refine this technology. Suitability of this technology to
specific needs can be investigated at NASA Langley.

 
Absorption Coefficient of Ceramic Spheres with Holes and Pyrell Foam, Df=8
Hz, SPLi=105 dB.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

