 

Helicopter Tail Boom Strakes

A simple, inexpensive means to increase performance and control

An inexpensive and simple means to improve control of helicopters has been
developed. During hovering flight in windy conditions, the pilot's ability
to maintain heading control is greatly enhanced by the addition of strakes
horizontally mounted along the helicopter tail boom. Without the strakes,
the tail boom "flies" in the winds from the main rotor and crosswinds which
causes the tail rotor to work harder and use up control available to the
pilot to maneuver the helicopter. The tail boom strakes act like a fence to
the airflow moving over the boom and changes the reactions of the boom in a
way to result in more control for the pilot and less power needed for the
tail rotor.

 
Tail rotor power saved vs. crosswind velocity

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Most single-rotor helicopters
   * Major candidates for application:
        o Virtually all private, commercial, and military single-rotor
          helicopters

This technology is currently being applied on the following aircraft:

   * AS-3504-355 (French)
   * MD-500N and MD-630N (McDonnell-Douglas)
   * S-61 (Presidential fleet)
   * NASA/Army UH-1H
   * S-61 (United Kingdom)
   * EH-101 (United Kingdom)

Benefits

   * Performance (if the helicopter is yaw control limited)
        o Increases operating altitude (~4,000 ft)
        o Increases operating gross weight; payload (1,200 lbs)
        o Increases yaw control margin (7 percent)

The Technology

During hovering flight in crosswinds, the helicopter tail boom acts like an
airplane wing and "flies" in the airflow produced by main rotor downwash and
crosswinds. The resulting aerodynamic side load on the boom reacts on the
helicopter and causes the tail rotor yaw control to use more power. As the
helicopter tries to operate at higher altitudes and gross weights, the tail
rotor power and the yaw control problems are made more difficult. When the
strakes are added, they "spoil" this airflow, and thus reduce the tail rotor
power needed which gives the pilot more control.

Army and NASA researchers at the NASA Langley Research Center have conducted
wind tunnel and flight experiments to develop this technology. Benefits
predicted from wind-tunnel data agree well with flight-test results. The
critical wind angle where the need for yaw control is at a maximum was found
to occur between 45-deg. and 105-deg. off of the right of the nose of the
helicopter and at crosswind speeds between 15-25 knots, depending on the
particular helicopter design under consideration. The use of the tail boom
strakes reduces the power going to the tail rotor during critical hovering
flight conditions which reduces drive shaft, gearbox, and tail rotor loads,
reduces tail rotor noise, gives the pilot additional yaw control, and
increases the gross weight and altitude capability of the helicopter.

   * Key Features
       1. Simple, inexpensive
       2. Can be used in lieu of development of a new, more powerful tail
          rotor system which would cost $20M to design, develop, and qualify
       3. Significant control and performance gains

   * Fabrication
          Inexpensive to fabricate and install

 
Close-up photo of tail boom strakes installed

Options for Commercialization

This technology is documented in formal NASA reporting, patented by NASA,
and is available for licensing and/or joint development under a NASA Space
Act Agreement.

This commercialization opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer
Program. The objective of this program is to proactively involve the private
sector in NASA's programs to ensure that the technology developed will have
maximum commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

