 

Suppressing or Generating Vibrations - Smart Structures Concepts

Smart structures can be defined as structures that are self-sensing and
self-compensating. Integrating piezoelectric materials as actuators within a
conventional structure can be a first step toward developing a smart
structure. As actuators, piezoelectric materials can provide a lightweight,
nonintrusive and cost effective means of suppressing or generating
vibration. This technology was applied to a model wing where fifteen sets of
piezoelectric patches were adhered to the top and bottom of the main
structural member of the model. Piezoelectric actuation was used to suppress
and control vibrations due to flutter and to external excitations such as
turbulence. Piezoelectric actuation was also used to generate vibrations by
exciting the mode shapes of the structure.

 
Model of wing with piezoelectric actuators

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Suppressing or controlling undesirable vibrations on: household
     appliances, machinery, automobiles, trains, airplanes, and bridges
   * Generating vibrations for: pagers, therapeutic devices, machining
     devices, biomedical devices, and pumps

Benefits

   * Weight savings
   * Nonintrusive actuation
   * Minimal power requirements
   * Highly efficient in obtaining multiple redundancy requirements for
     safety
   * Long service life of actuators
   * Low and high frequency vibrations can be effectively controlled

The Technology

Piezoelectricity is the ability of a material to develop an electrical
charge when subjected to a mechanical strain and viceversa. The NASA Langley
Research Center and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology have been
working together to advance the state of the art in applying
piezoelectricity to aeroelastic systems. The Piezoelectric Aeroelastic
Response Tailoring Investigation (PARTI) involved finite element and
aeroservoelastic analyses and ground and wind-tunnel testing of a multi-
degree-of-freedom semi-span wind-tunnel model with distributed piezoelectric
actuators. Active control laws were designed using a system identified plant
model developed from experimental data. Control effectiveness was determined
by measuring power spectral densities of model response and changes in
natural frequencies. The actively controlled piezoelectric ceramic actuators
improved the aeroelastic characteristics of the flexible five-foot span
wind-tunnel model. Improvements in the flutter boundary were demonstrated as
were significant reductions in model response at dynamic pressures below
flutter. Flutter is an interaction between the aerodynamic, elastic and
inertial forces of a structure that can lead to divergent and destructive
oscillations of motion. Conventional flutter suppression techniques that do
not use smart structures concepts can result in increased weight and cost.

 
Piezoelectric actuator

Options for Commercialization

This technology is part of the NASA Technology Transfer Program that
provides the opportunity to partner with industry to develop commercial
applications from NASA-developed technology. Piezoelectricity, active
vibration control and vibration generation are well developed technologies
that have significant commercial potential when combined.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

