 

Energy Absorbing Structural Concepts for Improved Crash Safety

Composite structural components are being designed to crush in a controlled
manner during impact or crash loading. Controlled crushing of the structure
limits the impact loads applied to occupants or other objects. The
structures may be tailored to the application by varying the materials and
geometric parameters.

 

Potential Commercial Uses

   * General Aviation Aircraft: subfloor structure for crash safety
   * Automotive: front and side loading crash protection
   * Department of Transportation: bridge abutment and highway safety
     railing structure for automotive impact safety
   * Military: energy absorbing structure for aerial dropped precision
     equipment (robotics, etc.)
   * Miscellaneous: ground or air transportation of specialized equipment;
     loading dock bumpers

 

Benefits

   * Performance: controlled sustained crush load with high stroke
     efficiency; maintains structural integrity after crush; exceeds
     performance of sine wave base-line
   * Key Features: structures can be tailored for the application by varying
     materials and geometric parameters
   * Fabrication: low-cost manufacturing tooling and process as compared
     with sine wave structure

The Technology

An experimental program was conducted to study the behavior of low cost
energy absorbing composite subfloor structures. The study, part of a broader
full-scale aircraft test program, examines the efficiency of generic energy
absorbing composite structures applicable to new crashworthy aircraft
designs and existing aircraft that could be modified, cost effectively, to
meet crashworthiness requirements. Static and dynamic tests have shown that
the subfloor structure is usually too stiff and too strong to provide
survivable occupant lumbar loads of 1500 lbf or less at vertical crash
velocities of 30 ft/sec or greater. Therefore, the energy absorbing subfloor
structures or beams have been tailored to meet the following criteria:

   * Meet normal flight and landing loads requirements
   * Initiate crushing at a given load
   * Crush progressively while maintaining sustained crushing loads with a
     lower load boundary ( 200 lb/in.) to ensure adequate energy absorption
     for a given depth ( 8 in.) and an upper load boundary ( 300 lb/in.) to
     limit occupant loads to acceptable levels
   * Achieve high stroke efficiency ( 80% of the initial height) while
     maintaining sustained crushing loads
   * Maintain a substantial residual bending stiffness
   * Maintain structural integrity after crushing which is critical for
     seat, and thus, occupant retention

The energy absorbing structures shown in the two photographs were
constructed of glass fabric, Kevlar fabric and foam. The data trace is a
graphical representation of the desired characteristics.

Options for Commercialization

This technology opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer Program.
The objective of this program is to ensure that NASA developed technology
will have maximum benefit in the private sector.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

