 

Compact Low Stiffness Support Device

Development of suspension devices for ground testing spacecraft has resulted
in the development of a small compact low stiffness support device. The
device can be designed to support weight of an object such that conditions
of weightlessness can be emulated at the point where an object is connected
to the device.

 

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Orthopedic: Low stiffness support for limbs, muscles, joints, and
     bones.
   * Shoes: Technology used in this device can be used to design shoes with
     less impact when walking
   * Structures: Structural support of cantilevered or hinged articles
     during vibration testing
   * Aircraft: Structural/vibration testing of aircraft wings
   * Robotics: Provide support during slewing maneuvers

Benefits

   * Performance: Unlike other suspension devices, this device is designed
     to eliminate the need for a large vertical overhead facility to reduce
     the suspension stiffness associated with the traditional use of cables.
     The device has no constraint on horizontal motion and minimal
     constraint on vertical motion.
   * Key Features: This device is very compact, lightweight, simple, and
     convenient to use.
   * Fabrication: The device is simple to design and to fabricate. The
     design and device size are dependent upon the amount of weight it is to
     support and the range of desired vertical motion.

The Technology

The device consists of three main parts: a zero-spring rate mechanism, a
coupling rod, and a support base that allows compressed air (20 psi) to form
an air cushion.

A coupling rod has an attachment for the supported article. A set of two
tension springs is connected to the rod and to a support plate on the
device. The springs support the weight of the article. A coupling rod also
connects the article to a zero-spring-rate mechanism. The mechanism offsets
the stiffness due to the springs used to support the weight of the article.

The air cushion provides an almost frictionless and unconstrained horizontal
motion. Graphite/Epoxy tubes are used to provide support for very heavy
objects. If supported weight is less than 200lbs, the tubes may be replaced
with aluminum or other less expensive material.

Options for Commercialization

NASA seeks industry partners to cooperatively develop commercial products
using this technology. Inquiries into licensing, Memorandums of Agreement,
and solutions to specific individual problem statements are welcomed.

This commercial opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer Program.
The objective of this program is to pro-actively involve the private sector
in NASA's research programs to ensure that the technology developed will
have maximum commercial impact.

Currently this device/technology is controlled under NASA Langley Patent
Case Number LAR 14684-1-CU.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

