 

Quick-Attachment Joints

The Quick-Attachment Joints were developed at the Langley Research Center
for use by astronauts in assembling high-precision structures in space for
future scientific instruments. The encumbrance of the pressurized space suit
mandated a joint that could be easily assembled without special tools. The
strict sensitivity requirements of the scientific instruments demanded a
joint that could be repeatedly assembled and disassembled while maintaining
exacting tolerances. In 1992, 30 Quick-Attachment Joints were carried on
Space Shuttle mission STS-49 to evaluate their operation in space. The
versatility of these joints was clearly demonstrated when the mission's
primary objective of retrieving and repairing the failed INTELSAT spacecraft
could only be accomplished using a temporary framework constructed with the
joints.

 

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Situation where rapid configuration changes are required
   * Scaffolding in hazardous (high-radiation) areas
   * Where precision joints are needed

Benefits

   * Rapid assembling and disassembling of joints
   * No tools are required
   * Skilled labor not required
   * Savings of time and labor
   * Repeatable precision joints

The Technology

The Quick-Attachment Joint is designed to allow the efficient assembly of
large, high-performance trusses in space by astronauts in Extravehicular
Activity (EVA). Its repeatable and predictable structural performance is
achieved through numerical machining of its components and precise alignment
of its halves by tapered tongues and grooves. Once assembled, the joint
exhibits a constant axial stiffness with negligible free-play due to its
nearly-straight load path mechanism. The latch mechanism is easily operated
without tools and incorporates an energy storage device to allow the
pre-load to be maintained through load cycling of the joint.

The joint has been scaled to different sizes for different applications, and
many of its features can be translated into simpler designs with performance
compromises offset by lower fabrication costs.

 

Options for Commercialization

The technology opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer Program.
The program seeks to stimulate development of commercial applications from
NASA-developed technology. The Quick-Attachment Joints have been fabricated,
tested, and utilized in space. Two patents have been granted on the
technology and NASA is seeking applicants to license the technology and/or
partnerships to further broaden and refine the technology.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

