 

Composite Structures Technology

The composite structures technology is focused on developing concepts for
lighter-weight, damage-tolerant and cost-effective structural components.
These concepts exploit the advantages that advanced composite materials
offer over conventional materials such as aluminum and steel. This
technology has been used in the fabrication of structural members for
aircraft wings and fuselages. In addition, methodology for reliably
predicting the response and failure of these structures is developed.

 
Wing panel

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Structures for ground vehicles and ships
   * Structures for civil, mechanical, electrical and electronics
     engineering
   * Weight-critical and stiffness-critical structures
   * Prostheses, wheelchairs, crutches
   * Structures for subsonic, supersonic and hypersonic aircraft
   * Structures for space transportation systems, launch systems and
     spacecraft

Benefits

   * Lighter-weight structures
   * Higher specific strengths and stiffness'
   * Directional tailoring of stiffness and strength properties
   * Enabling technology for new and innovative structural concepts
   * Better corrosion resistance
   * Fewer parts to fabricate and assemble

 
Fuselage panel

The Technology

Composite structures research is being conducted at NASA Langley for
light-weight wing and fuselage primary structures for future transport
aircraft and for spacecraft and launch vehicles. Advanced structural
concepts are being developed that are both light weight and cost effective.
Composite structural specimens are tested to identify new response and
failure mechanisms, to determine true limits of performance, and to verify
analytical methods that predict structural response and failure. Advanced
structural analysis and sizing methods are developed to represent the linear
and nonlinear behavior of damage-tolerant composite structures. Parametric
studies are also conducted to identify trends in structural performance as
structural parameters are changed.

Options for Commercialization

NASA is seeking partnerships with industry to develop further composite
structures technology for advanced applications.

This commercialization opportunity is part of the NASA Technology Transfer
Program. The objective of this program is to proactively involve the private
sector in NASA's programs to ensure that the technology developed will have
maximum commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

