 

ACT Program Developed Composites Technology

Research work under the NASA Advanced Composites Technology (ACT) program
has led to demonstrated fabrication technology, low cost composites
processing, and integrated multidisciplinary optimization. The program is
leading to the verification that composite structures offer 30-50% weight
and 20-25% cost savings compared to aluminum structure sized for the same
mission and payload.

 
A multitude of vendors supply ACT Program technologies

Potential Commercial Uses

   * Commercial and General Aviation:
          Advanced composites, primarily graphite, Kevlar, and boron, were
          first developed for high-performance aerospace applications. NASA
          sponsored research and development is credited with providing the
          confidence that lead Boeing to introduce a composite empennage
          into the 777 production aircraft. The technology was also
          influential in selection of composite structure for the Beech
          Starship executive aircraft.

   * Automobiles:
          Composite materials are now being used for both structural and
          nonstructural automotive components (i.e., exterior and interior
          body panels, drive shaft, and bumpers).

   * Marine:
          Glass-reinforced plastics and composites have been used for small
          boat hulls, sonar domes, masts, and decks. These materials offer
          several advantages: high strength, low weight and resistance to
          the marine environment.

   * Sporting Equipment:
          A variety of sports equipment is made from
          graphite-fiber-reinforced polymers, including golf clubs, tennis
          rackets and skis.

Benefits

   * Fabrication:
          Reduced parts count, automated processes, and less costly than
          previous composite structure

   * Performance:
          Stronger, lighter, more durable and more damaged tolerant than
          aluminum structures

The Technology

The materials developed for the ACT program offer significant advancement
over previous materials used to make composite structures. The processing
technology for Resin Transfer Molding (RTM) and for powder coated towpreg
offer significant improvements for making composite components at a lower
cost. The automated tow placement (ATP) and stitching technology developed
can significantly improve the performance and durability of composites.
Large capacity braiders and weavers developed under the ACT program provide
a diverse array of textile preforms. Materials advancements provide new
prepregs and powder coated tows that augment automated fabrication
processes.

Options for Commercialization

NASA seeks industry partners to cooperatively develop commercial products
based on the ACT developed technology. This commercialization opportunity is
part of the NASA Technology Transfer Program. The objective of this program
is to proactively involve the private sector in NASA's programs to ensure
that the technology developed will have maximum commercial impact.

See Working With NASA Langley: The Technology Transfer Process for more
details

Fill out the Commercialization/Partnership Form if you are interested in
commercializing or partnering to further develop this technology.

